<h2>CHAPTER I. <br/> The Fairy Houses</h2>

<p>“Got fixed up in your new house yet, Sir Clinton?”
asked Cecil Chacewater, as they sauntered together
up one of the paths in the Ravensthorpe grounds.
“It must be a bit of a change from South
Africa—settling down in this backwater.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton Driffield, the new Chief Constable of
the county, nodded affirmatively in reply to the
question.</p>

<p>“One manages to be fairly comfortable; and it’s
certainly been less trouble to fit up than it would
have been if I’d taken a bigger place. Not that I
don’t envy you people at Ravensthorpe,” he added,
glancing round at the long front of the house
behind him. “You’ve plenty of elbow-room in that
castle of yours.”</p>

<p>Cecil made no reply; and they paced on for a
minute or more before Sir Clinton again spoke.</p>

<p>“It’s a curious thing, Cecil, that although I knew
your father so well, I never happened to come down
here to Ravensthorpe. He often asked me to stay;
and I wanted to see his collection; but somehow we
never seemed able to fix on a time that suited us both.
It was at the house in Onslow Square that I always
saw you, so this is all fresh ground to me. It’s rather
like the irony of fate that my first post since I came
home should be in the very district I couldn’t find
time to visit when your father was alive.”</p>

<p>Cecil Chacewater agreed with a gesture.</p>

<p>“I was very glad when I saw you’d been appointed.
I wondered if you’d know me again after all
that time; but I thought we’d better bring ourselves
to your notice in case we could be of any help
here—introduce you to people, and all that sort of thing,
you know.”</p>

<p>“I hardly recognized you when you turned up the
other day,” Sir Clinton admitted frankly. “You
were a kiddie when I went off to take that police
post in South Africa; and somehow or other I never
seem to have run across you on any of my trips home
on leave. It must have been ten years since I’d seen
you.”</p>

<p>“I don’t wonder you didn’t place me at once. Ten
years makes a lot of difference at my advanced age.
But you don’t look a bit changed. I recognized you
straight off, as soon as I saw you.”</p>

<p>“What age are you now?” asked Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“About twenty-three,” Cecil replied. “Maurice is
twenty-five, and Joan’s just on the edge of
twenty-one.”</p>

<p>“I suppose she must be,” Sir Clinton confirmed.</p>

<p>A thought seemed to cross his mind.</p>

<p>“By the way, this masked ball, I take it, is for
Joan’s coming-of-age?”</p>

<p>“You got an invitation? Right! I’ve nothing to do
with that part of the business.” Then, answering
Sir Clinton’s inquiry: “Yes, that’s so. She wanted
a spree of some sort; and she generally gets what
she wants, you know. You’ll hardly know <em>her</em>
when you see her. She’s shot up out of all recognition
from the kid you knew before you went away.”</p>

<p>“She used to be pretty as a school-girl.”</p>

<p>“Oh, she hasn’t fallen off in that direction. You
must come to this show of hers. She’ll be awfully
pleased if you do. She looks on you as a kind of
unofficial uncle, you know.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s expression showed that he
appreciated the indirect compliment.</p>

<p>“I’m highly flattered. She’s the only one of you
who took the trouble to write to me from time to
time when I was out yonder. All my Ravensthorpe
news came through her.”</p>

<p>Cecil was rather discomfited by this reminder. He
changed the subject abruptly.</p>

<p>“I suppose you’ll come as Sherlock Holmes?
Joan’s laid down that every one must act up to their
costume, whatever it is; and Sherlock wouldn’t give
you much trouble after all your detective experience.
You’d only have to snoop round and pick up
clues and make people uncomfortable with
deductions.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed amused by the idea.</p>

<p>“A pretty programme! Something like this, I
suppose?” he demanded, and gave a faintly caricatured
imitation of the Holmes mannerisms.</p>

<p>“By Jove, you know, that’s awfully good!” Cecil
commented, rather taken aback by the complete
change in Sir Clinton’s voice and gait. “You ought
to do it. You’d get first prize easily.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head as he resumed his
natural guise.</p>

<p>“The mask wouldn’t cover my moustache; and I
draw the line at shaving that off, even in a good
cause. Besides, a Chief Constable can’t go running
about disguised as Sherlock Holmes. Rather bad
taste, dragging one’s trade into one’s amusements.
No, I’ll come as something quite unostentatious: a
pillar-box or an Invisible Man, or a spook,
probably.”</p>

<p>“I forgot,” Cecil hastened to say, apologetically,
“I shouldn’t have asked you about your costume.
Joan’s very strong on some fancy regulation she’s
made that no one is to know beforehand what anyone
else is wearing. She wants the prize awarding to
be absolutely unbiased. So you’d better not tell me
what you’re going to do.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced at him with a faint twinkle
in his eye.</p>

<p>“That’s precisely what I’ve been doing for the
last minute or two,” he said, dryly.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” Cecil asked, looking
puzzled. “You haven’t told me anything.”</p>

<p>“Exactly.”</p>

<p>Cecil was forced to smile.</p>

<p>“No harm done,” he admitted. “You gave nothing
away.”</p>

<p>“It’s a very useful habit in my line of
business.”</p>

<p>But Sir Clinton’s interest in the approaching
masked ball was apparently not yet exhausted.</p>

<p>“Large crowd coming?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Fairish, I believe. Most of the neighbours, I
suppose. We’re putting up a few people for the night,
of course; and there are three or four visitors on the
premises already. It should be quite a decent show.
I can’t give you even rough numbers, for Joan’s
taken the invitation side of the thing entirely into
her own hands—most mysterious about it, too.
Hush! Hush! Very Secret! and all that kind of
thing. She won’t even let us see her lists for fear of
making it too easy to recognize people; so she’s had
to arrange the catering side of the thing on her own
as well.”</p>

<p>“She always was an independent kind of person,”
Sir Clinton volunteered.</p>

<p>Cecil took no notice of the interjection.</p>

<p>“If you ask me,” he went on, “I think she’s a bit
besotted with this incognito notion. She doesn’t
realize that half the gang can be spotted at once by
their walk, and the other half will give themselves
away as soon as they get animated and begin to
jabber freely. But it’s her show, you know, so it’s no
use any one else butting in with criticisms and
spoiling her fun before it begins.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded his assent; but for a moment
or two he seemed to be preoccupied with some line
of thought which Cecil’s words had started in his
mind. Suddenly, however, something caught his eye
and diverted his attention to external things.</p>

<p>“What’s that weird thing over there?” he asked.
As he spoke, he pointed to an object a little way off
the path on which they were standing. It was a tiny
building about a yard in height and a couple
of yards or more in length. At the first glance it
seemed like a bungalow reduced to the scale of a
large doll’s house; but closer inspection showed that
it was windowless, though ventilation of a sort
appeared to have been provided. A miniature door
closed the entrance, through which a full-grown
man could gain admittance only by lying flat on the
ground and wriggling with some difficulty through
the narrow opening provided.</p>

<p>“That?” Cecil answered carelessly. “Oh, that’s
one of the Fairy Houses, you know. They’re a sort
of local curiosity. No matter where you are, you’ll
find one of them within a couple of hundred yards
of you, anywhere in the grounds.”</p>

<p>“Only in the grounds? Aren’t there any outside
the estate?” inquired Sir Clinton. “At the first
glance I took it for some sort of archæological
affair.”</p>

<p>“They’re old enough, I dare say,” Cecil admitted,
indifferently. “A century, or a century and a half,
or perhaps even more. They’re purely a Ravensthorpe
product. I’ve never seen one of them outside
the boundary.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton left the path and made a closer
examination of the tiny hut; but it presented very few
points of interest in itself. Out of curiosity, he
turned the handle of the door and found it moved
easily.</p>

<p>“You seem to keep the locks and hinges oiled,”
he said, with some surprise.</p>

<p>Pushing the door open, he stooped down and
glanced inside.</p>

<p>“Very spic and span. You keep them in good
repair, evidently.”</p>

<p>“Oh, one of the gardeners has the job of looking
after them,” Cecil explained, without showing much
interest.</p>

<p>“I’ve never seen anything of the sort before.
They might be Picts’ dwellings, or something of
that kind; but why keep them in repair? And, of
course, they’re not prehistoric at all. They’re
comparatively modern, from the way they’re put
together. What are they?”</p>

<p>“Ask me another,” said Cecil, who seemed bored
by the subject. “They’re an ancestral legacy, or an
heirloom, or a tenant’s improvement, or whatever
you like to call it. Clause in the will each time, to
provide for them being kept in good repair, and so
forth.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to prick up his ears when
he heard of this provision, though his tone showed
only languid interest when he put his next
inquiry.</p>

<p>“Anything at the back of it all? It seems a rum
sort of business.”</p>

<p>“The country-people round about here will supply
you with all the information you can believe
about it—and a lot you’re not likely to swallow, too.
By their way of it, Lavington Knoll up there”—he
pointed vaguely to indicate its position—“was the
last of the fairy strongholds hereabouts; and when
most of the fairies went away, a few stayed behind.
But these didn’t care much for the old Knoll
after that. Reminded them of past glories and
cheery company too much, I suppose; and so they
made a sort of treaty with an ancestor of ours. He
was to provide houses for them, and they were to
look after the general prosperity side of
Ravensthorpe.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed amused by Cecil’s somewhat
scornful summary.</p>

<p>“A case of ‘Farewell rewards and fairies,’ it
seems, Cecil.”</p>

<p>Then, half to himself, he hummed a few lines of
Corbet’s song:</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p class="i1">Witness those rings and roundelayes</p>
  <p class="i2">Of theirs, which yet remaine;</p>
  <p class="i1">Were footed in queene Maries dayes</p>
  <p class="i2">On many a grassy playne.</p>
  <p class="i1">But since of late Elizabeth . . .</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Do you go as far back as Elizabeth, here at
Ravensthorpe, by any chance, Cecil?”</p>

<p>“So far as the grounds go, yes. The house was
partly destroyed in Cromwell’s time; and some new
bits were built on in place of the old stuff. But
there’s a lot of the old part left yet, in quite good
repair.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton still seemed interested in the compact
with the Fairies.</p>

<p>“Was there any penalty clause in the contract
about these Houses? There’s usually some drawback
to these affairs—like the Luck of Edenhall, for
instance.”</p>

<p>“There used to be some legend or other that
unless the Fairies found their houses always in good
order, the Family Curse would come home to roost,
one-time. No one believes in that sort of stuff nowadays;
but it’s kept alive by this clause that’s put into
every will—a kind of a family custom, you know,
that no one cares to be the first to break. If you call it
a damned old wives’ tale, I shan’t blame you.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton could not be sure whether Cecil’s
indifference in the matter was natural or assumed;
but in any case he thought it tactful to pursue the
subject no further. Closing the door of the Fairy
House again, he made his way back to the path
where his companion was waiting for him.</p>

<p>As the Chief Constable rejoined him, Cecil
looked round the horizon with feeble interest.</p>

<p>“Not much else to show you, I’m afraid,” he said.
Then, with an after-thought: “Care to see rather a
good view? The best one hereabouts is just up above
us—through the wood here—if you think it worth
the trouble of the climb. It’s not very far. We’ve
plenty of time before lunch.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced, and they began to mount
a further slope in the path which now led them up
through a sparse pine-wood.</p>

<p>“There seems to be a good sound foundation to
this path,” the Chief Constable commented, as they
walked on.</p>

<p>“There used to be a carriage-drive, at one time,
leading up to the top. I suppose the old birds used
to drive up here and sit out having tea and admiring
the view on fine days. But it’s been neglected for
long enough. Hardly any one goes up to the top now,
except once in a blue moon or else by accident.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton gave a nod of acquiescence.</p>

<p>“Any one can see the path’s hardly ever used.”</p>

<p>“Just beyond this brow,” Cecil explained as they
moved on, “there’s an old quarry cut in the further
side of the hill. It’s a very old place, rather
picturesque nowadays. Most of the stone for Ravensthorpe
came from it in the old days, and during the
rebuilding. After that, the quarry dropped out of use
gradually; and finally some one had the notion of
letting water in at the foot of it and having a sort of
model lake there, with the cliff of the quarry at one
end of it. We’re making for the top of the cliff by
going this way; and when you get out of the wood
into the open, you’ll find rather a good outlook over
the country.”</p>

<p>A short walk took them through the rest of the
pine-wood. On the further side they came into a belt
of open ground beyond which, on a slight eminence,
a little spinney blocked part of the view.</p>

<p>“That’s where we’re making for,” Cecil explained.
“The best view-point is on the other side of
these trees. The old birds, a century back, chose it
carefully and did some laying out at the top; so I
suppose they must have been keen on the place.”</p>

<p>As they approached the spinney, Sir Clinton
noticed a fence running down from each side of it.
Cecil followed the direction of the Chief Constable’s
glance.</p>

<p>“That’s barbed wire,” he pointed out. “The spinney’s
at the top of the quarry; but there’s a bad
drop down towards the hollow on either side—a
dangerous bit, practically precipitous—and so the
wire was put up to prevent any one wandering near
the edge and tripping over.”</p>

<p>Cutting through the fringe of trees, they emerged
at the top of the cliff. Here the ground had been
levelled and paved. Along the precipice, a marble
balustrade had been erected as a safeguard. Further
back, a curved tier of marble seats faced the view;
and here and there in the line rose pedestals
carrying life-sized marble statues which faced out
towards the gulf.</p>

<p>“This is really very elaborate,” Sir Clinton
commented. “Evidently your ancestors liked the view,
if they took so much trouble to put up this affair.”</p>

<p>He moved across the paved space, leaned on the
balustrade, and looked down into the depths.</p>

<p>“I don’t wonder you fenced that in with barbed
wire on each side,” he said. “It’s a nasty drop down
there—well over a fifty-foot fall at least.”</p>

<p>“It’s nearer a hundred, really,” Cecil corrected
him. “The height’s a bit deceptive from here. And a
fall into that pool would be no joy, I can tell you!
It’s full of sharp spikes of rock jutting up from the
bottom. You’d get fairly well mauled if you
happened to drop on any of them. You can’t see them
for that green stuff in the water; but they’re all
present and correct under the surface.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked down at the weed-grown little
lakelet. The dense green fronds gave the water an
unpleasant appearance; and in some tiny backwaters
the surface was covered with a layer of scum.</p>

<p>“Why don’t you get all that stuff cleared out?”
he demanded. “It looks rather beastly. Once you
got rid of it you could stock the pool with trout or
perch, easily enough. I see there’s some flow of
water through it from a spring at the east end.”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed to have no interest in the suggestion.</p>

<p>“If you want some fishing,” he said, “we’ve got
quite a decent stream that runs through another
part of the grounds. This place used to be kept in
good order; but since the war and all that, you
know, the fine edge has been rather off things hereabouts.
It’s in a bad state, right enough. Just a
frog-pond.”</p>

<p>“Is the water deep?” Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“Oh, ten to fifteen feet in parts. Quite deep just
in front of the cave at the bottom of the cliff below
here. We used to have great times playing robbers
and so forth when we were kids. There’s our old
raft at the far end. It was well tarred and I see it’s
still afloat. It was the only way of getting at the
cave-mouth, you see.”</p>

<p>He dismissed the subject.</p>

<p>“Suppose we sit down for a while.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton followed him to one of the marble
benches. Before them, the view of the Ravensthorpe
grounds stretched out, closed on the horizon by a
line of woodland. In the foreground, beyond a fence
at the end of the lake, sheep were grazing on some
meadow-land.</p>

<p>“One of your ancestors?” inquired Sir Clinton,
nodding towards the nearest statue. “Or merely
Phœbus Apollo?”</p>

<p>Cecil turned to glance at the statue.</p>

<p>“I think I’d back your second choice,” he said.
“If it was an ancestor, it must have been one of
the ancient Britons. It’s a bit short of clothes for
anything later than that; and even for an ancient
Briton it seems a trifle undressed. No woad, you
know.”</p>

<p>He took out his cigarette-case, offered it to Sir
Clinton, and then began to smoke. Sir Clinton
seemed to be admiring the view in front of him for a
few minutes; but when he spoke again it was evident
that something more than scenery had been in
his mind.</p>

<p>“I’m not altogether easy in my mind over this
masked ball of Joan’s. Speaking as a Chief
Constable responsible for the good behaviour of the
district, Cecil, it seems to me that you’re running
some risks over it. A dance is all very well. You
know all your guests by headmark and no one can
get in on false pretences. But once you start masks,
it’s a different state of affairs altogether.”</p>

<p>Cecil made no comment; and Sir Clinton
smoked in silence for a time before continuing:</p>

<p>“It’s this craze of Joan’s for anonymity that
seems to me to open the door to all sorts of things.
I take it that there’ll be no announcing of individual
guests, because of this incognito stunt of hers. But
unfortunately that means you’ll have to admit any
one who chooses to present himself as Winnie-the-Pooh
or Felix the Cat or Father Christmas. You
don’t know who he is. You can’t inquire at the
start. Anybody might get in. Considering the
amount of good portable stuff there is in the
collection at Ravensthorpe, do you think it’s quite
desirable to have no check whatever on your
guests?”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed struck by this view of the case.</p>

<p>“I never thought of that,” he said. “I suppose
we ought to have issued uniform entrance-tickets,
or something of that sort; but the thing never
crossed any of our minds. Somehow, it seems a bit
steep to take precautions against people when one’s
inviting them to one’s house.”</p>

<p>“It’s not <em>invited</em> guests I’m thinking about,” Sir
Clinton hastened to explain more definitely. “This
affair must have been talked about all over the
countryside. What’s to hinder some enterprising
thief dressing up as a tramp and presenting himself
along with the rest? He’d get in all right. And
once he was inside, he might be tempted to forget
the laws of hospitality and help himself. Then, if
he made himself scarce before the unmasking at
midnight, he’d get clean away and leave no trace.
See it?”</p>

<p>Cecil nodded affirmatively; but to Sir Clinton’s
slight surprise he did not appear to be much
perturbed on the subject. The Chief Constable seemed
to see an explanation of this attitude.</p>

<p>“Perhaps, of course, you’re shutting up the
collections for the evening.”</p>

<p>Cecil shook his head.</p>

<p>“No. Joan insists on having them on view—all
of them. It’s a state occasion for her, you know;
and she’s determined to have all the best of
Ravensthorpe for her guests. What she says goes, you
know. If she can’t get her own way by one road
she takes another. It’s always easier to give in to
her at once and be done with it. She has such a way
of making one feel a beast if one refuses her
anything; and yet she never seems to get spoiled with
it all.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed rather taken aback by the
news about the collections.</p>

<p>“Well, it’s your funeral, not mine, if anything
does happen,” he admitted.</p>

<p>“Maurice’s—not mine,” Cecil corrected him
with a touch of bitterness which Sir Clinton failed
to understand at the moment.</p>

<p>“I’ve nothing to do with Ravensthorpe nowadays,”
Cecil went on, after a pause. “I live there,
that’s all. The whole affair went to Maurice—lock,
stock, and barrel—when my father died. I’ve really
no more right in these grounds than you have. I
might be kicked out any day.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was puzzled by Cecil’s tone. It was
only natural that Ravensthorpe should go down into
the hands of Maurice, since he was the elder
brother. There could be no particular grievance in
that. And yet Cecil’s voice had betrayed something
deeper than a mere mild resentment. The asperity
in his last remark had been unmistakable.</p>

<p>For a few minutes Cecil remained silent, staring
moodily out at the landscape. Sir Clinton refrained
from interrupting his thoughts. The matter certainly
had excited his curiosity; but until Cecil chose
to say more, there seemed to be no reason for
intruding into the private affairs of the Ravensthorpe
household. Even the privileges of an old friend did
not seem to Sir Clinton a sufficient excuse for probing
into family matters.</p>

<p>But the Chief Constable, without any voluntary
effort, had the gift of eliciting confidences without
soliciting them. Cecil’s brooding came to an end and
he turned round to face his companion.</p>

<p>“I suppose I’ve said either too much or too little
already,” he began. “I don’t see why I shouldn’t tell
you about the affair. It’s nearly common talk as it
is, and you’re sure to hear something about it
sooner or later. You may as well get it first-hand and
be done with it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, having solicited no confidence, contented
himself with merely listening, without
offering any vocal encouragement.</p>

<p>“You knew my father well,” Cecil went on, after
a short pause in which he seemed to be arranging
his ideas in some definite order. “He was one of the
best, if you like. No one would say a word against
him—it’s the last thing I’d think of doing myself,
at any rate.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded approvingly.</p>

<p>“The bother was,” Cecil continued, “that he
judged every one by himself. He couldn’t understand
that any one might not be as straight as he always
was. He never made an allowance for some kinds of
human nature, if you see what I mean. And, another
thing, he had a great notion of the duties of the
head of the family. He took them pretty seriously
and he looked after a lot of people who had no claim
on him, really, except that they belonged to the
clan.”</p>

<p>“He was always generous, I know,” Sir Clinton
confirmed. “And he always trusted people.
Sometimes, perhaps, he overdid it.”</p>

<p>Cecil made a gesture of agreement and
continued:</p>

<p>“He overdid it when he drew up his will. Maurice,
of course, was bound to be the next head of the
family, once my father had gone; so my father took it
for granted that things would go on just the same.
The head of the family would run the show with an
eye to the interests of the rest of us, and all would
be right on the night. That was the theory of the
business, as my father saw it; and he drafted his
will on that basis.”</p>

<p>Cecil sat up suddenly and flung away his cigarette
with a vehemence which betrayed the heat of his
feelings.</p>

<p>“That was the theory of the business, as I said.
But the practice wasn’t quite so satisfactory. My
father left every penny he had to Maurice; he left
him absolutely every asset; and, of course,
Ravensthorpe’s entailed, so Maurice got that in the normal
course. Joan, my mother, and myself, were left without
a farthing to bless ourselves with. But there was
a suggestion in the will—not a legally binding thing,
but merely a sort of informal direction—that Maurice
was to look after us all and give us some sort of
income each. I suppose my father hardly thought it
worth while to do more than that. Being the sort of
man he was, he would rely implicitly on Maurice
playing the game, just as he’d have played the game
himself—had played it all his life, you know.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed no desire to offer any
comment; and in a moment or two Cecil went on once
more:</p>

<p>“Last year, there was nothing to complain about.
Maurice footed our bills quite decently. He never
grumbled over our expenses. Everything seemed
quite sound. It never crossed my mind to get things
put on a business footing. In fact, you know, I’d
hardly have had the nerve to suggest anything of
the sort. It would have looked a bit grasping,
wouldn’t it?”</p>

<p>Cecil glanced inquiringly at Sir Clinton, but the
Chief Constable seemed averse from making any
comment at this stage. Cecil took his case from his
pocket and lit a fresh cigarette before continuing
his story.</p>

<p>“You don’t remember Una Rainhill, I suppose?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“She’s a sort of second cousin of ours,” Cecil
explained. “Probably you never came across her.
Besides, she’d hardly be out of the nursery when you
went off to South Africa. Well, she’s grown up
now—just about a year or two younger than Joan.
You’ll see her for yourself. She’s staying with us
just now for this coming-of-age of Joan’s.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton had no great difficulty in guessing,
behind Cecil’s restraint, his actual feelings about the
girl. His voice gave him away if the words did not.</p>

<p>“No use making a long story of it, is there?” Cecil
continued. “Both Maurice and I wanted Una. So
did a good many others. But she didn’t want
Maurice. She was quite nice about it. He’d nothing
to complain of in that way. He got no encouragement
from her at all. But he wouldn’t take ‘no’ for
an answer. He was really extra keen, and I think
he overdid it instead of making the best of a bad
business. And finally he realized that it was me that
he was up against. Una and I aren’t officially
engaged, or anything like that—you’ll see why in a
moment—but it’s a case of two’s company and
three’s none; and Maurice knows he’s Number
Three.”</p>

<p>There was more than a tinge of rancour in Cecil’s
voice when he came to this last sentence. Sir Clinton
raised his eyebrows slightly. He did not quite
admire this malevolence on the part of the successful
lover against his defeated rival. Cecil apparently
noticed the slight change in the Chief Constable’s
expression.</p>

<p>“Wait a minute,” he said. “You haven’t heard it
all yet. Before I go on, just bear in mind that there
was plenty of money for all of us in the family. My
father always took it for granted that I’d have
enough to keep me. He’d never thought of my going
into business. I’ve got some sort of turn for writing;
and I think he hoped that I’d make some kind of
name as an author. And, of course, with what I
supposed was an assured income behind me, I haven’t
hurried much in the way of publishing my stuff. I
could afford to let it lie—or so I thought.”</p>

<p>A slight gesture of Sir Clinton showed his approval
of this outlook on authorship. It seemed to him that
Cecil at his age could hardly have much to tell the
world that it didn’t know already; but he had no
intention of expressing any such discouraging views.</p>

<p>“You see how it is,” Cecil continued. “As things
stand, I haven’t the ghost of a chance of earning a
decent income for years and years. And that was
the weak joint that Maurice saw and went for—damn
him! He took it upon himself to tell me that
I was here more or less on sufferance. He’d been
generous in the past—he actually reminded me of
that!—but he didn’t see how he was to continue to
subsidize me indefinitely. You see his game? If he
couldn’t have Una himself, he’d take care that I
shouldn’t have her either. Damned dog-in-the-manger!
That’s a nice sort of brother for you! I
wonder what his father would think about him if
he knew of this trick.”</p>

<p>He pitched away the stub of his unfinished cigarette
as though with it he could rid himself of some
of his feeling.</p>

<p>“Of course there was friction—I’m putting it
mildly—but there was no open row. My mother’s
not in good health and I couldn’t afford to have her
worried over my affairs. So we settled down to
some sort of armed neutrality, although the thing’s
more or less evident to most people. That’s what I
meant when I said I might be kicked out any day.
It’s only a question of time, it seems to me. He still
thinks that if I were out of the way he’d have a
chance with Una; and sooner or later I expect him
to give me an express-ticket into the wide world.
I’m trying to get some sort of job; but so far
I haven’t succeeded in lighting on anything
that seems to offer the slightest prospects. It’s no
pleasure to stay here on sufferance, I can tell
you.”</p>

<p>Now that Sir Clinton had received Cecil’s unsolicited
confidences, he hardly knew what to do with
them. After all, he reflected, he had heard only one
side of the story; and it was scarcely fair to judge
the case on the strength of an <i>ex-parte</i> statement.
It was not quite the Ravensthorpe which he had
expected, he admitted ruefully to himself as he
bent his efforts to bringing Cecil back to normal
again. Money and a girl: the two things that seemed
to lie behind most troubles—and even crimes, as
he knew from experience. It seemed an unkind
Fate that had forced these two factors to the front
in an environment where trouble of the kind was
the last that might have been expected. One never
knew what this sort of thing might lead to in the
end.</p>

<p>“I’d like to have a look at your father’s collections
some time or other,” he said at last, to change
the subject, when he had succeeded in getting
Cecil into a somewhat cooler frame of mind. “I
saw a good many of the things in London from
time to time, as he bought them; but there must be
a lot here at Ravensthorpe that will be new to me.
Anything your father bought will be worth looking
at. He had wonderful taste.”</p>

<p>Rather to his vexation, Sir Clinton found that
he had only shifted the conversation from one sore
point to another.</p>

<p>“If you want to see anything,” Cecil snapped,
“you’d better pay your visit as soon as you can
arrange it. Maurice is going to sell the lot.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was completely taken aback by this
news.</p>

<p>“Sell the stuff? What on earth would he want to
do that for? He’s got all the money he needs,
surely.”</p>

<p>Cecil dissociated himself from any connection
with the matter.</p>

<p>“No business of mine, now. Maurice can do as he
likes. Of course, I hate the idea of all these things
of my father’s being sold off when there seems no
need for it; but it’s not my affair. The Maurice boy
isn’t all we thought him; and since he’s come into
Ravensthorpe, he seems to think of very little else
but money and how to get more of it. Anything for
the dibs, it appears.”</p>

<p>“But surely he isn’t selling everything. He
might get rid of some minor things; but he’ll hardly
break up the whole collection.”</p>

<p>“Every damned thing, Sir Clinton. Why at this
very moment he’s got a Yankee agent—a man
Foss—staying at Ravensthorpe and chaffering for the
star pieces of the collections: the Medusa
Medallions.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“They must be fresh acquisitions since my day.
I’ve never even heard of them.”</p>

<p>“Ever see the picture of Medusa in the Uffizi
Gallery? It’s attributed to Leonardo da Vinci; but
some people say it’s only a student’s copy of the
original Leonardo which has disappeared. It seems
my father came across three medallions with almost
exactly the same Medusa on one side and a figure
of Perseus on the reverse. And what’s more, he was
able to get documentary proof that these things
were really Leonardo’s own work—strange as it
seems. The thing’s quite admitted by experts. So you
can imagine that these Medusas are quite the star
pieces in the museum. And Maurice calmly proposes
to sell them to Kessock, the Yank millionaire; and
Kessock has sent this man Foss over here to
negotiate for them.”</p>

<p>“It seems rather a pity to part with them,” Sir
Clinton said, regretfully.</p>

<p>“Maurice doesn’t feel it so,” Cecil retorted, rather
bitterly. “He got a friend of mine, Foxy Polegate,
to make him electrotypes of them in gold—Foxy’s
rather good at that sort of thing for an amateur—and
Maurice thinks that the electrotypes will look
just as well as the originals.”</p>

<p>“H’m! Cenotaphs, I suppose,” Sir Clinton
commented.</p>

<p>“Quite so. In Memoriam. The real things being
buried in the U.S.A.”</p>

<p>Cecil paused for a moment and then
concluded:</p>

<p>“You can imagine that none of us like this
damned chandlering with these things that my
father spent so much thought over. It’s enough to
make him turn in his grave to have all his favourites
scattered—and just for the sake of Maurice’s
infernal miserliness and greed for cash.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton rose from his seat and took a last
glance at the view before him.</p>

<p>“What about moving on now?”</p>

<p>Cecil agreed; and they retraced their steps
towards the pine-wood. As they entered the spinney,
Sir Clinton noticed another of the Fairy Houses set
back among the trees at a little distance from the
path.</p>

<p>“Another of those things?”</p>

<p>Rather to his surprise, Cecil moved over to examine
the little edifice, and bending down opened the
door and glanced inside.</p>

<p>“The Fairy’s not at home at present,” he said,
standing aside to let Sir Clinton look in.</p>

<p>Something in Cecil’s voice forced itself on the
attention of the Chief Constable. The words seemed
to be pointless; but in the tone there was an
ill-suppressed tinge of what might almost have been
malicious glee at some unexplained jest. Sir Clinton
was too wary to follow up this track, wherever it
might lead to. He did not quite like the expression
on Cecil’s face when the remark was made; and he
sought for some transition which would bring them
on to a fresh subject.</p>

<p>“You must have some curiosities in Ravensthorpe
itself, if parts of it are as old as they seem to be. Any
priest’s holes, or secret passages, or things of that
sort?”</p>

<p>“There are one or two,” Cecil admitted. “But we
don’t make a show of them. In fact, even Joan
doesn’t know how to get into them. There’s some
sort of ‘Mistletoe Bough’ story in the family: a girl
went into one of the passages, forgot how to work
the spring to get out again, lost her nerve apparently,
and stayed there till she died. It so happened
that she was the only one of the family in the house
at the time, so there was no one to help her out. Since
then, we’ve kept the secret of the springs from our
girls. No use running risks.”</p>

<p>“And even Joan hasn’t wheedled it out of you?”</p>

<p>“No, not even Joan. Maurice and I are the only
ones who can get into these places.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton evidently approved of this.</p>

<p>“Short of opening the passages up altogether,
that seems the best thing to do. One never knows
one’s luck. By the way, in an old place like this you
ought to have a stock of family legends. You’ve got
these Fairy Houses. Is there anything else of
general interest?”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed to have recovered something of his
normal good humour; and his face betrayed almost
a grin of amusement as he replied:</p>

<p>“Oh, yes! We’ve got a family ghost—or so the
country-folk say. I’ve never come across it myself;
but it’s common talk that the family spectre is a
White Man who walks in the woods just before the
head of the family dies. All rot, you know. Nobody
believes in it, really. But it’s quite an
old-established tradition round about here.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton laughed.</p>

<p>“You certainly don’t seem to take him very seriously.
What about Family Curses? Are you well
supplied?”</p>

<p>“You’d better apply to Maurice if you’re keen
on Family Curses. He seems to have specialized in
that branch, if you ask me.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch02">

<h2>CHAPTER II. <br/> Mr. Polegate’s Sense of Humour</h2>

<p>“How time flies!” said Joan Chacewater, in mock
despondency. “To-night I’m in my prime. To-morrow
I shall be twenty-one, with all my bright youth
behind me. Five years after that, I shall quite
possibly be married to Michael here, if I’m still alive
and he hasn’t died in the meantime. Then I shall
sit o’ nights darning his socks in horn-rimmed
spectacles, and sadly recalling those glad days when I
was young and still happy. It’s dreadful! I feel I
want to cry over it. Give me something to cry into,
Michael; I seem to have mislaid my bag.”</p>

<p>Michael Clifton obligingly held out a
handkerchief. Joan looked at it disparagingly.</p>

<p>“Haven’t you anything smaller than that? It
discourages me. I’m not going to cry on a
manufacturing scale. It wouldn’t be becoming.”</p>

<p>Una Rainhill laid her cigarette down on the
ash-tray beside her.</p>

<p>“If you’re going to be as particular as that, Joan,
I think I’d be content with a gulp or two of
emotion or perhaps a lump in the throat. Cheer up!
You’ve one more night before the shadows fall.”</p>

<p>“Ah, there it is!” said Joan, tragically. “You’re
young, Una, and you never had any foresight, anyway.
But I can see it all coming. I can see the fat
ankles”—she glanced down at her own slim
ones—“and the artificial silk stockings at
three-and-eleven the pair; because Michael’s business
will always be mismanaged, with him at the head
of it. And I’ll have that red nose that comes from
indigestion; because after Michael ends up in
bankruptcy, we won’t be able to keep a maid, and
I never could cook anything whatever. And then
Michael will grow fat, and short of breath and
bald . . .”</p>

<p>“That’ll be quite enough for the present,”
interrupted the outraged Michael. “I’m not so sure
about letting you marry me at all, after that pleasant
little sketch.”</p>

<p>“If you can’t drop those domineering ways of
yours, Michael, I shall withdraw,” Joan warned
him, coldly. “You can boss other people as much as
you choose; I rather like to see you doing it. But it
doesn’t go with me, remember. If you show these
distressing signs of wanting your own way, I shall
simply have to score you off my list of possibles.
And that would no doubt be painful to both of
us—to you, at any rate.”</p>

<p>“Oh, to both of us, to both of us, I’m sure. I
wouldn’t dream of contradicting you, Joan. Where
would you be, if the only serious candidate dropped
out? Anything rather than that.”</p>

<p>“Well, it’s a blessing that one man seems to have
some sense,” Joan admitted, turning to the others.
“One can’t help liking Michael, if it’s only for the
frank way he acknowledges when he’s in the wrong.
Skilful handling does a lot with the most
unpromising material, of course.”</p>

<p>Cecil leaned over in his chair and peered athwart
the greenery which surrounded the nook in the
winter-garden in which they were sitting.</p>

<p>“There’s Foxy wandering round.”</p>

<p>He raised his voice:</p>

<p>“Are you looking for us, Foxy? We’re over here.”</p>

<p>Foxton Polegate’s freckled face, surmounted by
a shock of reddish hair, appeared at the entrance to
their recess.</p>

<p>“Been hunting about for you,” he explained as he
sat down. “Couldn’t make out where you’d got to.”</p>

<p>He turned to Joan.</p>

<p>“Dropped across this evening on important business.
Fact is, I’ve lost my invitation-card and the
book of words. Didn’t read it carefully when
it came. So thought I’d drop over and hear what’s
what. Programme, I mean, and all that sort of
thing, so there’ll be no hitch.”</p>

<p>Una leaned over and selected a fresh cigarette
from the box.</p>

<p>“You’re hopeless, Foxy,” she pronounced. “One
of these memory courses is what you need badly.
Why not treat the thing as a practical joke instead
of in earnest? <em>Then</em> you’d have no difficulty.
Jokes are the only things you ever seem to take
seriously.”</p>

<p>“Epigrams went completely out before you were
born, Una,” Foxy retorted. “Don’t drag ’em from
their graves at this hour of the century. And don’t
interrupt Joan in her instructions to the guest of
the evening. Don’t you see she’s saying ’em over
nervously to herself for fear she forgets ’em?”</p>

<p>“There’s a bit too much of the harassed nursemaid
about you, Foxy, with all your ‘don’ts,’ ” Joan
broke in. “Now take your stylus and tablets and jot
this down carefully, for I won’t repeat it under a
shilling a page. Here’s the programme. Ten p.m.:
Arrival of distinguished guests. (They’re all
distinguished, except you, Foxy.) Brilliant and
animated conversation by those who can manage it; the
rest can listen intelligently. (You may try listening,
Foxy, if it isn’t too much of a strain.) The
cloak-room, picture-gallery, museum, and poultry-yard
will be thrown open for inspection by the public
absolutely free of charge. It won’t cost you a
cent. Bridge-tables will be provided for the curiosities
who don’t dance. Dancing will begin straightway
and will be continued up to 11.45, when the
judges will take their seats. As soon as they are
comfortable, the march-past will start. All guests must
present themselves at this without fail, Foxy. At
five minutes to twelve the identity of the prize-winners
will be disclosed. When midnight strikes, all
guests will remove their masks, even at the cost of
shocking the company in some cases. Dancing will
then be resumed and will continue into the dewy
dawn. And that’s how it will take place according
to plan.”</p>

<p>“There’s just one point,” said Foxy, hesitatingly.
“Are the prizes portable things, or shall I have to
hire a van to take mine away with me?”</p>

<p>“I shouldn’t worry a bit about that, Foxy,” said
Una, comfortingly. “We’ve decided to keep the
prizes in the family, you see. Joan gets one, because
it will be her birthday. I get the other for the best
female costume. Cecil, Maurice, and Michael are
going to toss odd-man for the two men’s prizes. So
you can come as a Teddy Bear without pockets if
you like. It won’t be of any consequence. You’ll have
nothing to carry away.”</p>

<p>“Can’t say fairer than that,” Foxy admitted. “Always
liked that plain, straightforward way of doing
things myself.”</p>

<p>A recollection of his talk with Sir Clinton passed
across Cecil Chacewater’s mind, and without
reflection he communicated it to the others:</p>

<p>“By the way, Sir Clinton seemed a trifle worried
over this affair. He pointed out to me that some
scallywag might creep in amongst the guests and
play Old Harry in the museum if he got the
chance.”</p>

<p>Just at this moment, Maurice Chacewater passed
along the alley in the winter-garden from which the
nook opened.</p>

<p>“Maurice!” Joan called to her brother. “Come
here for a moment, please.”</p>

<p>Maurice turned back and entered the recess. He
seemed tired; and there was a certain hesitancy in
his manner as though he were not quite sure of
himself. His sister made a gesture inviting him to sit
down, but he appeared disinclined to stay.</p>

<p>“What’s the trouble?” he asked, with a weary air.</p>

<p>“Cecil’s been suggesting that it’s hardly safe to
leave the collections open to-morrow night, in case a
stranger got in with a mask on. Hadn’t we better
have some one to stay in the museum and look after
them?”</p>

<p>“Cecil needn’t worry his head,” Maurice returned,
ignoring his brother. “I’m putting one of the
keepers on to watch the museum.”</p>

<p>He turned on his heel and went off along the
corridor. Foxy gazed after him with a peculiar
expression on his face.</p>

<p>“Maurice looks a bit done-up, doesn’t he?” he
finally said, turning back towards the group about
him. “He hasn’t been quite all right for a while.
Seems almost as if he expected a thunderbolt to
strike him any minute, doesn’t he? A bit white
about the gills and holding himself in all the time.”</p>

<p>Before any one could reply to this, Joan rose and
beckoned to Michael.</p>

<p>“Come along, Michael. I’ll play you a hundred up,
if you like. There’ll be no one in the billiard-room.”</p>

<p>Michael Clifton rose eagerly from his chair and
followed her out. Foxy looked after them.</p>

<p>“As an old friend of the family, merely wanting
to know, <em>are</em> those two engaged or not? They go on
as if they were and as if they weren’t. It’s most
confusing to plain fellows like me.”</p>

<p>“I doubt if they know themselves,” said Una, “so
I’d advise you not to waste too much brain-matter
over it, Foxy. What do boys of your age know
about such things?”</p>

<p>“Not much, not much, I admit. Cupid seems to
pass me by on his rounds. Perhaps it’s the red hair.
Or maybe the freckles. Or because I’m not the
strong, talkative sort like Michael. Or just Fate,
or something.”</p>

<p>“I expect it’s just Something, as you say,” Una
confirmed in a sympathetic tone. “That seems,
somehow, to explain everything, doesn’t it?”</p>

<p>“As it were, yes,” retorted Foxy. “But don’t let
the fact that you’ve ensnared Cecil—poor
chap—lead you into putting on expert airs with me.
Betrays inexperience at once, that. Only the very
young do it.”</p>

<p>His face lighted up.</p>

<p>“I’ve just thought of something. What a joke!
Suppose we took the Chief Constable’s tip and
engineered a sham robbery to-morrow night?
Priceless, what? Carry it through in real good style.
Make Maurice sit up for a day or two, eh? Do his
liver good if he’d something to worry about.”</p>

<p>Cecil’s face showed indecision.</p>

<p>“I shouldn’t mind giving Maurice a twinge or two
just to teach him manners,” he confessed. “But I
don’t see much in the notion as it stands, Foxy.
Maurice is posting a keeper in the museum, you
know; and that complicates things a bit. The
keeper would spot any of us tampering with things.
He knows us all as well as his own brother.”</p>

<p>“Not in fancy dress, with a mask on, dear boy.
Don’t forget that part of it.</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p class="i1">‘Fancy me in fancy dress,</p>
  <p class="i1">Fancy me as Good Queen Bess!’ ”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>he hummed softly. “Only I don’t think I’ll come as
Good Queen Bess, after all.”</p>

<p>Cecil knitted his brows slightly and seemed to be
considering Foxy’s idea.</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t mind giving Maurice a start,” he
admitted half-reluctantly. “And your notion might be
good enough if one could work it out properly.
Question is, can you? Suppose you suddenly make a
grab for some of the stuff. The keeper’ll be down on
you like a shot. He’ll yell for help; and you’ll be
pinched for a cert. before you could get away.
There doesn’t seem to be anything in it, Foxy.”</p>

<p>“Hold on for a minute. I’ll see my way through
it.”</p>

<p>Foxy took a cigarette, lighted it, and seemed to
cogitate deeply over the first few puffs.</p>

<p>“I’ve got it!” he announced. “It’s dead easy.
Suppose one of us grabs the keeper while the other
helps himself to the till? We could easily knock out
the keeper between us and get off all right without
an alarm being raised.”</p>

<p>Cecil shook his head.</p>

<p>“No, I draw the line at using a sand-bag or
a knuckle-duster on our own keeper. That’s barred,
Foxy. Think again.”</p>

<p>“There’s aye a way,” Foxy assured him sententiously.
“Give me another jiffy or two. This is how
it goes. We mustn’t knock out the keeper. We
mustn’t be recognized. We’ve got to get away
scot-free, or the joke would be on us. These the
conditions?”</p>

<p>Cecil nodded.</p>

<p>“This is where pure genius comes in,” Foxy
announced with pride. “How does one recognize
any one? By looking at ’em. So if the keeper can’t
look at us, he won’t recognize us. That’s as sound as
Euclid, if not sounder.”</p>

<p>“Well?” asked Una, joining in the conversation.</p>

<p>“Well, he won’t recognize us if the place is dark,
then,” explained Foxy, triumphantly. “All we have
to do is to get the light in the room switched off, and
the thing’s as good as done.”</p>

<p>“That seems to hit the mark,” Cecil agreed. “But
that makes it a three-handed job, you know: one to
grab the keeper; one to snaffle the stuff; and one to
pull out the fuse of the museum light from the
fuse-box. Where’s our third man?”</p>

<p>Una leaned forward eagerly.</p>

<p>“I’ll do that part for you! I’d like to make
Maurice sit up. He hasn’t been very nice to me
lately; and I want to pay him out just a little.”</p>

<p>“Nonsense, Una,” Cecil interrupted. “You can’t
be mixed up in a joke of this sort. There’s almost
bound to be a row after it. It doesn’t matter in my
case; Maurice has his knife into me anyway, you
know. But there’s no need for you to be getting your
fingers nipped.”</p>

<p>Una brushed the suggestion aside.</p>

<p>“What can Maurice do to me even if he does find
out? I’ve nothing to do with him. And, besides, how
is he going to find out anything about it? I suppose
you’ll just keep the things for a day or two and then
return them by some way that he can’t trace. He’ll
never know who did it, unless we let it out
ourselves. And we mustn’t let it out, of course.”</p>

<p>Foxy nodded his agreement. Cecil was longer in
his consideration; but at last he seemed to fall in
with the arrangement.</p>

<p>“Well, so long as Una’s name isn’t mixed up in it,
Foxy, I’m your man. It’s a silly caper; but I’m not
above going into it for the sport of vexing my good
brother.”</p>

<p>“Right!” said Foxy, with relief. “Now the next
article: What’s the best thing to go for? It must be
portable, of course.”</p>

<p>Cecil pondered for a moment; then, as a thought
struck him, he laughed.</p>

<p>“Here’s the game. It may be news to you, Foxy,
but my good brother is taking steps to sell off our
collections.”</p>

<p>Foxy was quite plainly staggered by this news.</p>

<p>“All the stuff your father got together? Surely
not! Well, that’s the limit!”</p>

<p>“Quite,” confirmed Cecil. “I’d prevent it if I
could; but he’s got the whip-hand, and that’s
all there is to it.”</p>

<p>Foxy seemed still slightly incredulous.</p>

<p>“Why, your Governor loved that stuff as it were
a child! And Maurice doesn’t need the money he’ll
get for it. It’s . . . it’s shameful! My word! If I
were in your shoes, Cecil, I believe I’d really steal
the stuff instead of only pretending to grab it.”</p>

<p>“I’m sorely tempted,” said Cecil, half-grimly.
“Now here’s the point. It seems Maurice has
got into touch with Kessock, the Yank millionaire.
Kessock wants to buy the Medusa Medallions—the
very thing my father set most store by in the whole
lot. Kessock’s sent over an agent of his—this fellow
Foss who’s staying here just now—to settle up the
business, see to the genuineness of the things, and
so forth. I’ve nothing against Foss. He’s only doing
his job and he seems all right. I don’t like some of
his American manners; but that’s neither here nor
there. The point is, the deal’s just going to be closed.
Now if we lift these medallions, won’t Maurice look
an extra-sized ass?”</p>

<p>“Absoluto!” said Foxy. “I see what you’re after.
We lift ’em. Foss wants ’em at once. He can’t get
’em. P’raps the deal’s off—for the time at least. And
Maurice looks a prize ape.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” Cecil snapped, angrily. “That’ll perhaps
teach him a lesson.”</p>

<p>Una Rainhill had been thinking while this last
part of the conversation had been going on.</p>

<p>“There’s one thing you haven’t provided against,
Foxy,” she pointed out. “Suppose you manage
everything as you’ve arranged. Even if you get
clear away from the museum, there’s almost certain
to be some one in the passage outside who’ll see you
rush out. And then the game would be up. It’s not
enough to dowse the light in the museum. You’ll
need to put all the house lights out as well.”</p>

<p>“That’s sound,” Foxy agreed at once. “That
means that you’ll need to pull out the main switch
instead of just the fuse of the museum. It’s an even
easier job, with no chance of a mistake in it. And
what a spree it’ll be. The whole shop will be buzzing
like an overturned hive! It’ll be great sport. And,
of course, there’ll be such a wild confusion before
they get the lights on again, that we’ll come out of
it absolutely O.K. All we have to do is to saunter
quietly out of the museum and help to restore order
among the rabble in the dark. By the time the lights
go on again, we’ll be anywhere it suits us to be.
That’s a master-stroke of yours, Una. Couldn’t be
bettered.”</p>

<p>Cecil glanced at his wrist-watch.</p>

<p>“Time’s getting on, Foxy. We’ve sketched the
general idea, but we must get this thing down to
dots now. Everything will depend on synchronizing
things exactly. We can’t afford to leave affairs to
the last moment; for we mustn’t be seen together,
you know, to-morrow night.”</p>

<p>Foxy nodded assent and pulled out a notebook.</p>

<p>“Here it is, then,” he declared. “I’ll make three
copies—one for each of us—and we can burn ’em
once we’ve memorized ’em later on. Now, first of
all, we can’t start our game too early. That’d be a
mistake. Let ’em all get well mixed up in dancing
and so forth, before we begin operations.”</p>

<p>Cecil and Una assented to this at once.</p>

<p>“Midnight’s the limit at the other end,” Foxy
pointed out. “Can’t afford to wait for the
unmasking, for then the keeper would know us and
remember we’d been in the museum when the thing
happened.”</p>

<p>His fellow-conspirators made no objection.</p>

<p>“In between those limits, I think this would be
about right,” Foxy proposed. “First of all, we set
our three watches to the same time. Better do it
now, for fear of forgetting.”</p>

<p>When this had been done, he continued:</p>

<p>“At 11.40 Una goes to the main switch. You’ll
have to show her where it is, Cecil, either to-night
or to-morrow morning. At 11.40, also, Cecil and I
wander independently into the museum. I remember
quite well where the medallions are kept.”</p>

<p>“Wait a moment,” interrupted Cecil. “Just
remember that the three real medallions and your
three electrotypes are lying side by side in the glass
case. The real medallions are in the top row; your
electros are the bottom row.”</p>

<p>Foxy made a note of this and then went on:</p>

<p>“Your business, Cecil, will be to mark down the
keeper. Get so near him that you can jump on him
for certain the very instant the lights go out. Make
sure you can get his hands or his wrists at the first
grab. You mustn’t fumble it or you’ll shipwreck the
whole caboodle.”</p>

<p>“I’ll manage it all right,” Cecil assured him.</p>

<p>“In the meantime I’ll be stooping over the medallion
case, looking at the stuff, with something in my
hand to break the glass. I’ll have a thick glove, so
as not to get cut with the edges when I put my hand
in.”</p>

<p>“That’s sound,” said Cecil, “I hadn’t thought of
the splinters.”</p>

<p>“Blood would give us away at once,” Foxy pointed
out. “Now comes the real business. At a quarter
to twelve precisely Una pulls out the switch. As
soon as the light goes, Cecil jumps on the keeper
while I smash the glass of the case and grab the top
row of the medallions. After that, we both cut for
the door and mingle with the mob. And remember,
not a word said during the whole affair. Our voices
would give us away to the keeper.”</p>

<p>He scribbled two extra copies of his time-table
and handed one of these to each of the other
conspirators.</p>

<p>“Now, for my sake, don’t botch this business,” he
added. “I’ve played a joke or two in my time, but
this is the best I’ve ever done, and I don’t want it
spoiled by inattention to details. It’ll be worth all
the trouble to see Maurice’s face when he finds
what’s happened.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch03">

<h2>CHAPTER III. <br/> The Theft at the Masked Ball</h2>

<p>“I’m thankful I took my wings off,” said Ariel, leaning
back in her chair with a soft sigh of satisfaction.
“You’ve no notion how much you long to sit down
when you know you daren’t do it for fear of crushing
the frames of these things. It’s not tiredness; it’s
simply tantalization.”</p>

<p>She turned her eyes inquisitively on the bearded
figure of her partner.</p>

<p>“I wonder who you’re supposed to be?” she
mused. “You ought to have a ticket, with a costume
like that. I can’t guess who you imagine you
are—or who you really are, for that matter.”</p>

<p>Her companion showed no desire to enlighten her
on the last point.</p>

<p>“ ‘My quaint Ariel, hark in thine ear,’ ” he quoted,
but she failed to recognize the tones of his voice.</p>

<p>“Oh, now I see! We did ‘The Tempest’ one year
at school. So you’re Prospero, are you? Well, don’t
let’s begin by any misunderstandings. If you think
you’re entitled to act your part by ordering me
about, you’re far mistaken. My trade union
positively refuses to permit any overtime.”</p>

<p>“I’ve left my book and staff in the cloak-room,”
Prospero confessed, laughingly, “otherwise,
malignant spirit . . .”</p>

<p>“ ‘That’s my noble master!’ ” quoted Ariel, ironically.
“Prospero was a cross old thing. I suppose
you couldn’t even throw in a bit of conjuring to keep
up appearances? It’s almost expected of you.”</p>

<p>Prospero looked cautiously round the
winter-garden in which they were sitting.</p>

<p>“Not much field here for my illimitable powers,”
he grumbled disparagingly, “unless you’d like me to
turn Falstaff over there into a white rabbit. And that
would startle his partner somewhat, I’m afraid, so
we’d better not risk it.”</p>

<p>He pondered for a moment.</p>

<p>“I hate to disappoint you, Ariel. What about a
turn at divination? Would it amuse you if I told your
fortune, revealed the secrets of your soul, and what
not? This is how I do it; it’s called Botanomancy, if
you desire to pursue your studies on a more
convenient occasion.”</p>

<p>He stretched up his hand and plucked a leaf from
the tropical plant above his head. Ariel watched him
mischievously from behind her mask.</p>

<p>“Well, Prospero, get along with it, will you? The
next dance will be starting sooner than immediately.”</p>

<p>Prospero pretended to study the leaf minutely
before continuing.</p>

<p>“I see a girl who likes to play at having her own
way . . . and isn’t too scrupulous in her methods
of getting it. She is very happy . . . happier,
perhaps, than she has ever been before. . . . I see two
Thresholds, one of which she has just crossed, the
other which she will cross after this next dance, I
think. Yes, that is correct. There’s some influence in
the background. . . .”</p>

<p>He broke off and regarded Ariel blandly.</p>

<p>“So much for the signs. Now for the interpretation.
You are obviously in the very early twenties;
so I infer that the Threshold you are about to cross
lies between your twentieth and twenty-first birthday.
Putting that along with the character which the
leaf revealed . . . Why, Ariel, you must be Miss
Joan Chacewater, and you’ve just got engaged!”</p>

<p>“You seem to know me all right, Prospero,” Joan
admitted. “But how about the engagement? It’s too
dim in here for you to have seen my ring; and besides,
I’ve had my hand in the folds of my dress ever
since I sat down.”</p>

<p>“Except for one moment when you settled the
band round your hair,” Prospero pointed out. “The
ring you’re wearing is more than a shade too large
for your finger—obviously it’s so new that you
haven’t had time to get it altered to fit, yet.”</p>

<p>“You seem to notice things,” Joan admitted. “I
wonder who you are.”</p>

<p>Prospero brushed her inquiry aside.</p>

<p>“A little parlour conjuring to finish up the part in
due form?” he suggested. “It’s almost time for our
dance. Look!”</p>

<p>He held out an empty hand for Joan’s inspection,
then made a slight snatch in the air as if seizing
something in flight. When he extended his hand
again, a small diamond star glittered in the palm.</p>

<p>“Take it, Joan,” said Sir Clinton in his natural
voice. “I meant to send it to you to-morrow; but
at the last moment I thought I might as well bring it
with me and have the pleasure of giving it to you
myself. It’s your birthday present. I’m an old
enough friend to give you diamonds on a special
occasion like this.”</p>

<p>“You took me in completely,” Joan admitted, after
she had thanked him. “I couldn’t make out who
you were; and I thought you were the limit in
insolence when you began talking about my private
affairs.”</p>

<p>“It’s Michael Clifton, of course?” Sir Clinton
asked.</p>

<p>“Why ‘of course’? One would think he’d been
my last chance, by the way you put it. This living on
a magic island has ruined your manners, my good
Prospero.”</p>

<p>“Well, he won’t let you down, Joan. You—shall
I say, even you, to be tactful—couldn’t have done
better in the raffle.”</p>

<p>Before Joan could reply, a girl in Egyptian costume
came past their chairs. Joan stopped her with a
gesture.</p>

<p>“Pin this pretty thing in the front of my band,
please, Cleopatra. Be sure you get it in the right
place.”</p>

<p>She held out the diamond star. Cleopatra took it
without comment and fastened it in position hastily.</p>

<p>“Sit down,” Joan invited, “your next partner will
find you here when he comes. Tell us about Cæsar
and Antony and all the rest of your disreputable past.
Make it exciting.”</p>

<p>Cleopatra shook her head.</p>

<p>“Sorry I can’t stop just now. Neither Julius nor
Antony put in an appearance to-night, so I’m spending
my arts on a mere centurion. He’s a stickler for
punctuality—being a Roman soldier.”</p>

<p>She glanced at her wrist-watch.</p>

<p>“I must fly at once. O reservoir! as we say in
Egypt, you know.”</p>

<p>With a nod of farewell, she hastened along the
alley and out of the winter-garden.</p>

<p>“She seems a trifle nervous about something,” Sir
Clinton commented, indifferently.</p>

<p>Joan smoothed down her filmy tunic.</p>

<p>“Isn’t it time we moved?” she asked. “I see
Falstaff’s gone away, so you can’t turn him into a
white rabbit now; and there doesn’t seem to be
anything else you could enchant just at present. The
orchestra will be starting in a moment, anyhow.”</p>

<p>She rose as she spoke. Sir Clinton followed her
example, and they made their way out of the
winter-garden.</p>

<p>“What costume is Michael Clifton wearing to-night?”
asked Sir Clinton as the orchestra played
the opening bars of the dance. “I ought to
congratulate him; and it’s easier to pick him up at a
distance if I know how he’s dressed.”</p>

<p>“Look for something in eighteenth-century clothes
and a large wig, then,” Joan directed. “He says
he’s Macheath out of the ‘Beggar’s Opera.’ I suppose
he’s quite as like that as anything else. You’ll perhaps
recognize him best by a large artificial mole at the
left corner of his mouth. I observed it particularly
myself.”</p>

<p>She noticed that her partner seemed more on the
alert than the occasion required.</p>

<p>“What are you worried about?” she demanded.
“You seem to be listening for something; and you
can’t hear anything, you know, even if you tried,
because of the orchestra.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook off his air of preoccupation.</p>

<p>“The fact is, Joan, I’ve been worried all evening.
I’m really afraid of something happening to-night. I
don’t much like this mask business with all that stuff
in the collections. I’ve a feeling in my bones that
there might be trouble.”</p>

<p>Joan laughed at his gloomy premonitions.</p>

<p>“You won’t be kept on the rack much longer,
that’s one good thing. There’s just this dance, then
the march-past for judging the costumes, and then it
will be midnight when everybody must unmask. So
you’ll have to make the best of your fears in the next
half-hour. After that there’ll be no excuse for them.”</p>

<p>“Meanwhile, on with the dance, eh?” said Sir
Clinton. “I see it’s no use trying to give you a
nightmare. You’re too poor a subject to repay the labour
and trouble. Besides, this music’s terribly straining
on the vocal cords if one tries to compete with it.”</p>

<p>As he spoke, however, the orchestra reached a
diminuendo in the score and sank to comparative
quietness. Joan looked here and there about the
room as they danced and at last detected the figure
for which she was searching.</p>

<p>“That’s Michael over there,” she pointed out, “the
one dancing with the girl dressed as . . .”</p>

<p>Across the sound of the music there cut the sharp
report of a small-calibre pistol fired in some adjacent
room. On the heels of it came the crash and tinkle of
falling glass, and, almost simultaneously, a cry for
help in a man’s voice.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton let Joan’s hand go and turned to the
door; but before he could take a step, the lights
above them vanished and the room was plunged in
darkness. Joan felt a hand come out and grip her arm.</p>

<p>“That you, Joan?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“They’ve taken out the main switch,” Sir Clinton
said hurriedly. “Get hold of some man at once and
show him where it is. We want the lights as quick as
possible. I can trust you not to lose your head. Take
a man with you for fear of trouble. We don’t know
what’s happening.”</p>

<p>“Very well,” Joan assured him.</p>

<p>“Hurry!” Sir Clinton urged.</p>

<p>His hand dropped from her arm as he moved
invisibly away towards the door. In the darkness
around her she could hear movements and startled
exclamations. The orchestra, after mechanically playing
a couple of bars, had fallen to silence. Some one
blundered into her and passed on before she could
put out her hand.</p>

<p>“Well, at least I know where the door is,” she
assured herself; and she began to move towards it.</p>

<p>Meanwhile the cries for help continued to come
from the museum. Then, abruptly, they were hushed;
and she shuddered as she thought of what that
cessation might mean. She moved forward and came to
what seemed an unobstructed space on the floor, over
which she was able to advance freely.</p>

<p>Her whole senses were concentrated on reaching
the exit; but her mind appeared to work independently
of her own volition and to conjure up the
possibilities behind this series of events. Sir Clinton
had evidently expected some criminal attempt that
night; and he had assumed that the museum would
be the objective. But suppose he were wrong.
Perhaps the affair in the museum was only a blind to
draw towards it all the men outside the ball-room.
Then, when they were disposed of, there might come
an incursion here. Most of the women had taken
advantage of their fancy dress to deck themselves out
with jewellery, and a few armed men could easily
reap a small fortune in a minute or two. Despite the
soundness of her nerves, she began to feel anxious,
and to conjure up still more appalling pictures.</p>

<p>Suddenly her eyes were dazzled by a flash of light
as a man beside her struck a match. Almost at the
same moment she felt a hand on her shoulder and
she was pulled backwards so brusquely that she
almost lost her balance and slipped.</p>

<p>“Put out that match, you fool!” said Michael’s
voice. “Do you want to have these girls’ dresses in
a blaze?”</p>

<p>The flare of the match had revealed a circle of
startled faces. The room was filled with excited voices
and a sound of confused movements. Over at the
orchestra a music-stand fell with a clash of metal.
Then, close beside her in the darkness, Joan heard a
girl’s voice repeating monotonously in tones of acute
fear: “What does it mean? Oh, what does it mean?”</p>

<p>“Much good <em>that</em> does any one,” Joan muttered,
contemptuously. Then, aloud, she called: “Michael!”</p>

<p>Before he could reply, there came a sharp
exclamation in a man’s voice:</p>

<p>“Stand back, there! My partner’s fainted.”</p>

<p>The possibilities involved in a panic suddenly
became all too clear in Joan’s mind. If half a dozen
people lost their heads, the girl might be badly
hurt.</p>

<p>Michael’s voice was lifted again, in a tone that
would have carried through a storm at sea:</p>

<p>“Everybody stand fast! You’ll be trampling the
girl underfoot if you don’t take care. Stand still,
confound you! Pull the blinds up and throw back the
curtains. It’s a moonlight night.”</p>

<p>There was a rustling as those nearest the windows
set about the execution of his orders. Light suddenly
appeared, revealing the strained faces and uneasy
attitudes of the company. Joan turned to Michael.</p>

<p>“Come with me and put in the switch, Michael.
Sir Clinton’s gone to the museum. We must get the
lights on quick.”</p>

<p>Michael, with a word to his partner, followed his
fiancée towards the door. A thought seemed to strike
him just as he was leaving the room:</p>

<p>“Wait here, everybody, till we get the lights on
again. You’ll just run risks by moving about in the
dark outside. It’s nothing. Probably only a fuse
blown.”</p>

<p>“Now then, Joan, where’s that switch?” he added
as they passed out of the door.</p>

<p>It was pitch-dark in the rest of the house; but
Joan knew her way and was able to grope along the
corridors without much difficulty. As they came near
the switch-box, the lights flashed up again. One of
the servants appeared round a corner.</p>

<p>“Some one had pulled out the switch, sir,” he
explained. “It took me some time to make my way to
it and put it in again.”</p>

<p>“Stout fellow!” said Michael, approvingly.</p>

<p>At that moment, a voice shouted above the
confused noises of the house:</p>

<p>“Come on, you fellows! He’s got away. Lend hand
to chase him.”</p>

<p>And a sound of running steps filled the hall, as
the male guests poured out in answer to the
summons.</p>

<p>“You don’t need me any longer, Joan?” Michael
questioned. “Right! Then I’m off to lend a hand.”</p>

<p>He ran to join the rest.</p>

<p>Left alone, Joan retraced her steps to the ball-room;
but instead of re-entering it, she passed on in
the direction of the museum, whither a number of
the guests were making their way also.</p>

<p>“I hope nobody’s got badly hurt,” she thought to
herself as she hurried along. “I do wish I’d taken
the hint and not asked to have that collection thrown
open to-night.”</p>

<p>Much to her relief, she found Sir Clinton sitting on
a chair beside the museum door. In the doorway
stood the keeper, looking none the worse and busying
himself with fending off the more inquisitive among
the guests who wished to enter the room. Joan
noticed that the museum itself was in darkness
though the lights were burning in the rest of the
house.</p>

<p>“You’re not hurt, are you, Sir Clinton?” she asked
as she came up to him.</p>

<p>“Nothing to speak of. The fellow kicked me on
the ankle as he came out. I’m temporarily lamed,
that’s all. Nothing to worry about, I think.”</p>

<p>He rubbed his ankle as he spoke.</p>

<p>“Are you all right, Mold?” Joan inquired.</p>

<p>The keeper reassured her.</p>

<p>“No harm done, Miss Joan. They didn’t hurt me.
But I’m sorry, miss, I didn’t manage to get hold
of them. They were on me before I could do anything,
me being so taken aback by the lights going
out.”</p>

<p>“What’s happened?” Joan questioned Sir Clinton.
“Has anything been stolen?”</p>

<p>“We don’t know yet what’s gone,” he replied,
answering her last question first. “The bulk of the
lamp’s smashed in there”—he nodded towards the
museum—“and until they bring a fresh one, we
can’t find out what damage has been done. As to
what happened, it seems rather confused at present;
but I expect we shall get it cleared up eventually.
There seems to have been a gang at work; and I’m
afraid some things may be missing when we begin to
look over the collection.”</p>

<p>“I wish I’d taken your hint,” Joan admitted,
frankly. “It’s partly my blame, I feel, for neglecting
your advice. I was silly to laugh at you when you
spoke about it.”</p>

<p>“I shouldn’t worry about it, if I were you, Joan,”
Sir Clinton reassured her. “It was really only one
chance in a million that anything of the sort would
happen to-night. Besides, if we manage to nail this
fellow that they’re all after, we may be able to get
some clue to his confederates. Quite evidently there
was a gang at work, and he may be induced to split
on his friends if we can lay hands on him; and then
we’ll get the stuff back again without much trouble,
I hope.”</p>

<p>He glanced at her, as though to see the effect of his
words; then, as his eyes caught her mask, he seemed
struck by another idea.</p>

<p>“That reminds me,” he said, “we must get these
masks off. Send some one round at once, please, Joan,
to order every one to unmask now. And have all the
outer doors shut, too. It’s a futile precaution, I’m
afraid; because any one could slip out during the
confusion when there was no light: but we may as
well do what we can even at this stage.”</p>

<p>He removed his own mask as he spoke, and pulled
away the false beard which he had worn as Prospero.
Joan loosened her mask and went off to give the
necessary orders. In a few moments she returned.</p>

<p>“Now tell me what did happen,” she demanded.</p>

<p>“There’s no one killed, or even hurt,” Sir Clinton
assured her. “This ankle of mine’s the only casualty,
so far as I know; and I expect I’ll be able to limp
about quite comfortably by to-morrow.”</p>

<p>“I’m thankful it’s no worse,” said Joan, with relief.</p>

<p>“All I know about the business comes from Mold,
here,” Sir Clinton went on. “It seems he was
patrolling the museum at the time the thing happened,
under your brother’s orders. Perhaps half a dozen
people—under a dozen, he says, at any rate—were in
the place then. Some of them were examining the
cases in the bays; some of them were looking at the
things in the big centre case. Mold doesn’t remember
what costumes they were wearing. I don’t blame
him. People had been passing in and out all through
the evening; and there was no reason why he should
take particular note of the guests at that special
moment.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced up at the keeper, who was
looking rather ashamed at his inability to furnish
better information.</p>

<p>“Don’t you worry, Mold. I doubt if I’d have had
any more to tell, myself, if I’d been there. One can’t
be expected to remember everything.”</p>

<p>He turned back to Joan.</p>

<p>“The next thing that happened was a pistol-shot,
and the light went out. Some light filtered in from
the door of the room, for the lamps in the hall here
were still blazing; but before Mold could do
anything, some one gripped him from behind and got his
wrists twisted behind his back. In the struggle Mold
was swung round, so that he couldn’t see the central
case even in what light there was. Then the lights
outside were switched off and he heard a smashing of
glass. There was a bit of a struggle, apparently; and
then all at once he felt himself let loose. As soon as
he got free, he lit a match and posted himself at the
door to prevent any one getting away; and he stayed
there until the lights went on again. Then he made
all his prisoners unmask and those whom he didn’t
recognize himself he kept there until some one he
knew came to identify them. They’re all people you
know quite well, Joan. More than half of them were
girls, who seem rather unlikely people to go in for
robbery with violence, to put it mildly. Mold made
a list of them, if we happen to need it. But I don’t
think we’re likely to find the criminal amongst them.
This affair was too well planned for that. The real
gang have got clean away, I’m pretty sure.”</p>

<p>“And what about your ankle?” demanded Joan.</p>

<p>“Oh, that? I happened to arrive at the door fairly
quickly after the lights went out. Just as I got to it,
a fellow came dashing out; and I made a grab at him
as well as I could in the dark. But one can’t see
what one’s doing; and I didn’t get a decent grip on
him as he charged out on top of me. He landed me a
fairly effective kick—right on the ankle-bone, by
bad luck—and then, before I could get my hands on
him properly he tore himself clear and was off down
the hall towards the front door. I hobbled after him
as best I could; and there he was—a fellow dressed
in Pierrot costume—running quite leisurely over the
gravel sweep and making for the woods. I couldn’t
go after him; but he was quite clear in the moonlight
and he’d a long way to go before getting into cover;
so I raised a hue and cry at once, and quite a crowd
of stout fellows are after him. He’ll have to run a bit
faster than he was doing, if he expects to get off.
These pine-woods have no undergrowth to speak of;
and he’ll find it difficult to conceal himself in a
hurry.”</p>

<p>As Sir Clinton ended his narrative a servant came
hurrying up the hall, bringing a tall pair of steps with
him.</p>

<p>“Is that the new lamp?” Sir Clinton demanded.
“All right. Light a match or two, Mold, to let him
see where to put the steps. And don’t tramp about
too much while you’re fixing them up, please. I want
to see things undisturbed as far as possible.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch04">

<h2>CHAPTER IV. <br/> The Chase in the Woods</h2>

<p>In earlier days, Michael Clifton had been reckoned
among the more creditable runners in the School
Mile; and he had never allowed himself to fall out of
training. Thus as he joined the throng of would-be
pursuers emerging from the house, he felt a certain
confidence that the fugitive would at any rate have
to put his best foot foremost if he was to avoid being
run down. Before he had covered twenty yards,
however, Michael found himself handicapped by his
costume. The full-bottomed wig dropped off almost
immediately, and the shoes were not so troublesome
as he had feared; but the sleeves of his coat
interfered with his movements, and the long skirts
hampered his legs.</p>

<p>“I wonder if these coves in the eighteenth century
ever ran a step,” he grumbled. “If they did it in
this kit, they must have been wonders. I must get
rid of the truck.”</p>

<p>He pulled up and stripped off the full-skirted coat;
then, as an after-thought, he removed the long
waistcoat as well. While doing this, he glanced ahead to
see how the chase was progressing. The light of the
full moon, now at its highest in the cloudless heavens,
lit up the whole landscape before him almost as
clearly as daylight. Far ahead, he could see the white
figure of the escaping thief as it ascended the long,
gentle slope towards the pine-woods.</p>

<p>“I wonder what tempted the beggar to choose that
particular costume on a night like this,” Michael
speculated. “It’s the most conspicuous affair he could
have put on. Well, all the better for us.”</p>

<p>The quarry had evidently secured a fair start, for
the nearest group of pursuers was still a considerable
distance behind him. The hunters were strung out
in an irregular file, knotted here and there with
groups of three or four runners; and the line
extended back almost to Michael’s position. Behind
him, he could hear fresh reinforcements emerging
from the house, shouting as they came.</p>

<p>“They’d better save their breath,” Michael commented
critically to himself. “That long rise’ll take
it out of a good many of them.”</p>

<p>He settled down to his favourite stride; and very
soon began to overtake the laggards at the tail of the
chase. In front of him he saw a Cardinal Richelieu
with kilted cassock; but the Cardinal found his
costume too much for him and pulled out of the race
as Michael passed him. Shortly after, Michael drew
level with an early nineteenth-century dandy and for
a few seconds they raced neck and neck. The dandy,
however, was unable to stay the pace.</p>

<p>“It’s these damned Johnny Walker boots,” he
gasped, as he fell behind.</p>

<p>Michael, running comfortably, began to take a
faint amusement in the misfortunes of his colleagues.
He could not help smiling as he passed a Minotaur,
sitting beside the track and making furious efforts
to disentangle himself from his pasteboard bull’s
head which seemed to have become clamped in
position. But as he found two more of the hunters
by the wayside, a fresh point of view occurred to
him.</p>

<p>“If they’re going to drop out at this rate, there
won’t be many of us left at the finish to tackle the
beggar; and he’s armed. We’ll need all the men we
can scrape up, if we’re to make sure of him.”</p>

<p>Glancing ahead again, he was relieved to see that
he had gained a fair amount of ground on the fugitive;
and now he began to pass runner after runner,
as the rising slope told on the weaker pursuers. He
reached the group at the head of the chase just as
the escaping burglar dashed into the shadow of the
woods a hundred yards in advance.</p>

<p>“He’ll dodge us now, if he can,” Michael warned
his companions, who evidently were unacquainted
with the ground. “Keep your eyes on him at any
cost.”</p>

<p>But as they entered the pine arcades, Michael
found that he was mistaken. The quarry maintained
his lead; but he made no effort to leave the beaten
track. Ahead of them they could see his white-clad
figure dappled with light and darkness as he sped up
the broad pathway.</p>

<p>Suddenly, Michael remembered what lay beyond
the pine-wood. Without raising his voice, for fear
the runner in front should hear him, he explained
the situation.</p>

<p>“He doesn’t know what he’s running into. There’s
a big quarry up there, with barbed wire fences on
each side. If we can keep him straight for it, we’ll
have him pinned.”</p>

<p>On went the fugitive, still maintaining his lead and
glancing over his shoulder from time to time, as
though he were gauging the distance which separated
him from his closest pursuers.</p>

<p>“The beggar can run, certainly,” Michael admitted
to himself. “But running isn’t going to help him much
in a minute or two. We have him on toast.”</p>

<p>In a few moments the moon shone bright through
the trees ahead. As they reached the edge of the
wood, the white figure in front of them showed up
clearly as it sprinted across the strip of open ground,
straight for the spinney which bounded the quarry
cliff. With a gesture, Michael called his motley group
to a halt.</p>

<p>“Wait a minute,” he ordered. “You, Mephistopheles,
get off to the left there, outside the spinney.
Go on until you strike barbed wire. Take this
Prehistoric Man—oh, it’s you, is it, Frankie? Well, both
of you get down there and act as stoppers, so that
he can’t sneak off along the fence. Oliver Cromwell
and you in the funny coat! You’re to do the same
over yonder on the right. Put some hurry into it,
now! And don’t move in towards him till you get
the word. The rest of you, extend a bit along the
near edge of the spinney. Not too close; give
yourselves a chance of spotting him if he breaks cover.
And don’t yell unless you actually see him. We’ve
got him shut in now, and we can afford to wait for
reinforcements. Here they come!”</p>

<p>Two panting runners breasted the hill as he spoke.
At this moment there came from beyond the spinney
the sound of a splash. Michael was taken aback.</p>

<p>“The beggar can’t have dived over, surely. It’s
full of rocks down below. We’ll have to hurry up.
He might get away, after all, if he’s extra lucky.”</p>

<p>A fresh group of pursuers gave him the reinforcements
he needed; and he fed them into his cordon at
its weak points.</p>

<p>“Pass the word for the whole line to close in!”</p>

<p>The cordon began to contract around the spinney,
the wide gaps in it closing up as it advanced.</p>

<p>“The beggar’s probably got a pistol; look out for
yourselves among the trees,” Michael cautioned them
as they reached the boundary of the plantation.
“Don’t hurry. And keep in touch, whatever you do.”</p>

<p>He himself was at the centre of the line and was
the first to enter the tiny wood. The advance was
slow; for here there was some undergrowth which
might offer a hiding-place to the fugitive; and this
was carefully scrutinized, clump by clump, before
the line moved forward as a whole. Michael meant
to make certain of capturing the burglar; and he
could afford now to go about the matter deliberately.
Fresh reinforcements in twos and threes were still
streaming in from the pine-wood.</p>

<p>It took only a few minutes, however, to draw his
screen through the spinney; for the belt of trees was
a narrow one. Every instant he expected to hear a
shout indicating that the quarry had been run to
earth; but none came. His line emerged intact from
the trees, forming an arc of which the cliff-face was
the chord; and as his men came out into the
moonlight Michael had to admit to himself that no
one could well have crept through any gap in the
cordon.</p>

<p>“He must be out here, hiding among these seats,”
he shouted. “Don’t break your line any more than
you can help. Advance to that balustrade in front.
Rush him, if he shows up.”</p>

<p>Now that he was sure of his quarry, Michael at
last had leisure to note the tincture of the bizarre in
the scene before him. The high-riding moon whitened
the terrace and touched with glamour the motley
costumes of the hunters preparing for their final
swoop. Here Robin Hood and a hatless Flying Dutchman
were stooping to peer below one of the marble
seats. Farther along the line Lohengrin and a
Milkman discussed something eagerly in whispers. On
the left the Prehistoric Man loomed up like a
Troglodyte emerging from his cave; while beyond
him Mephistopheles leaned upon the railing, scanning
the water below. From the inky shadow of the
spinney Felix the Cat stole softly out to join the
cordon.</p>

<p>“A weird-looking gang we are,” Michael
commented to himself as he gazed about him.</p>

<p>Only a few steps separated the hunters from the
clear floor of the terrace. In a second or two at most,
the man they were chasing must break cover and
make a dash for liberty or else tamely surrender.
Slowly the line crept forward.</p>

<p>“We’ve got him now!” a voice cried, exultantly.</p>

<p>But the living net swept on past the marble tier
without catching anything in its meshes. Between it
and the balustrade was nothing but the untenanted
paving of the terrace.</p>

<p>“He’s got away!” ejaculated some one in tones of
complete amazement. “Well, I’m damned if I see
how he managed it.”</p>

<p>The chain broke up into individuals, who hurried
hither and thither on the esplanade searching even
in the most unlikely spots for the missing fugitive.
All at once Michael’s eye caught something which
had been concealed in the shadows thrown by the
moon.</p>

<p>“Here’s a rope, you fellows! He’s gone down the
face of the cliff. Swum the lake, probably.”</p>

<p>Mephistopheles dissented in a languid drawl.</p>

<p>“Not he, Clifton. I’ve had my eye on the water
ever since I got up to the barbed wire. You could
spot the faintest ripple in this moonshine. He didn’t
get off that way.”</p>

<p>“Sure of that?” demanded Michael.</p>

<p>“Dead sure. I watched specially.”</p>

<p>Michael hesitated for a moment or two,
considering the situation. Then his face cleared.</p>

<p>“I see it! I remember there’s a cave right below
here, in the cliff-face. He’s gone to ground there.
Half of you get through the barbed wire on the right;
the rest take the left side. Line up on the banks when
you get down to the water. He may swim for it yet
if we don’t hurry.”</p>

<p>They raced off to carry out his instructions, while
Michael pulled up the rope and flung it on the
terrace.</p>

<p>“That cuts off his escape in this direction,” he
said to himself. “Now we can dig him out at leisure.”</p>

<p>Without hurrying, he made his way down to the
water.</p>

<p>“There used to be a raft of sorts here,” he explained.
“If we can rout it out, we’ll be able to ferry
across to the cave-mouth without much bother. I
doubt if he’ll show fight once we lay our hands on
him; for he hasn’t an earthly chance of getting
away.”</p>

<p>He poked about among the sedge on the rim of
the lakelet and at last discovered the decrepit raft.</p>

<p>“This thing’ll just bear two of us. Do we dig the
beggar out or starve him out? Dig him out, eh?
Well, I want some one to go with me. Here, you,
Frankie”—he turned to the Prehistoric Man—“you’d
better come along. If it comes to a ducking,
you’ve got fewer clothes to spoil than the rest of us.”</p>

<p>Nothing loath, the Prehistoric Man scrambled
aboard the raft, which sank ominously under the
extra weight.</p>

<p>“I can’t find anything to pole with,” grumbled
Michael. “Paddle with your flippers, Frankie. It’s
the only thing to do. Get busy with it.”</p>

<p>Under this primitive method of propulsion, the
progress of the raft was slow; but at last they succeeded
in bringing it under the cliff-face, after which
they were able to work it along by hand. Gradually
they manœuvred it into position in front of the
cave-mouth, which stood only a yard or so above
water-level. Michael leaned forward to the
entrance.</p>

<p>“You may as well come out quietly,” he warned
the inmate. “It’s no good trying to put up a fight. You
haven’t a dog’s chance.”</p>

<p>There was no reply of any sort.</p>

<p>“Hold the damned raft steady, Frankie! You
nearly had me overboard,” expostulated Michael.
“I’m going to light a match. The cave’s as black as
the pit, and I can see nothing.”</p>

<p>He pulled a silver match-box from his trousers
pocket.</p>

<p>“Lucky I hadn’t this in my coat; for you don’t
look as if you had a pocket of any sort on you,
Frankie.”</p>

<p>The first match, damped by the moisture on his
hands, sputtered and died out.</p>

<p>“<em>Hurry</em> up, Guvnor,” shouted Mephistopheles,
cheerfully, from the bank. “Don’t keep us up
all night with your firework display. It’s getting
a bit chilly, paddling about amongst this sedge.
Not at all the temperature I’m accustomed to at
home.”</p>

<p>Michael felt for another match and lighted it
successfully. Standing up on the raft, he held the light
above his head and peered into the cavity in the rock.
The Prehistoric Man heard him exclaim in
amazement.</p>

<p>“Damnation, Frankie! He’s not here! It’s hardly
a cave at all.”</p>

<p>He put his hands on the cave floor.</p>

<p>“Hold tight with the raft. I’m going in to make
sure.”</p>

<p>He scrambled up into the hollow; but almost
immediately his face appeared again in the moonlight.</p>

<p>“Nothing here. The hole’s barely big enough to
take me in.”</p>

<p>“Then where’s he gone?” demanded the Prehistoric
Man, who was a creature of few words.</p>

<p>“I dunno! Must have given us the slip somehow.
If he isn’t here, he must be somewhere else. No
getting round that.”</p>

<p>He shouted the news to the watchers on the banks;
and a confused sound of argument rose from amongst
the sedge.</p>

<p>“Not much use hanging round the old home,
Frankie. Pull for shore, sailor. We’d best manhandle
her along the face of the cliff. I’ve had enough
of that paddling.”</p>

<p>When they touched firm ground again they were
surrounded by their friends, most of whom seemed to
doubt whether the search of the cave had been
properly carried out.</p>

<p>“I tell you,” declaimed the exasperated Michael,
“I got right into the damned hole! It’s so small that
I nearly broke my nose against the back wall as I
heaved myself inside. It would have been a tight fit
for me and a squirrel together. He’s not there,
whether you like it or not. . . . I can’t help your
troubles, Tommy; you can go and look for yourself,
if you like the job of lying on your tummy on a raft
that’s awash. I shan’t interfere with your simple
pleasures.”</p>

<p>“But . . .”</p>

<p>“We’ve lost him. Is that plain enough? There’s
nothing to be done but go home again with our tails
between our legs. I’m going now.”</p>

<p>He accompanied his friends to the top of the cliff
again; but when he reached the terrace a fresh
thought struck him, and he loitered behind while the
others, soaked and disconsolate, made their way down
into the pine-wood. When the last of them had
disappeared, Michael retraced his steps to the edge of
the cliff.</p>

<p>“He reached here all right,” he assured himself.
“And he didn’t break back through the cordon.”</p>

<p>He stooped down, picked up the rope, and
refastened it round one of the pillars of the
balustrade.</p>

<p>“Every one knows there are secret passages about
Ravensthorpe,” he mused. “Perhaps this beggar has
got on to one of them. And quite possibly the end
of the passage is in that cave down there. That would
explain the rope. I’ll slide down and have another
look round.”</p>

<p>He got into the cave-mouth without difficulty and
used up the remainder of his matches in a close
examination of the interior of the cavity; but even the
closest scrutiny failed to reveal anything to his eyes.</p>

<p>“Nothing there but plain rock, so far as I can
see,” he had to admit to himself as the last match
burned out. “That’s a blank end in more senses than
one.”</p>

<p>Without much difficulty he swarmed up the rope
again, untied it from the balustrade, and coiled it
over his arm.</p>

<p>“A nice little clue for Sir Clinton Driffield to puzzle
over,” he assured himself. “Sherlock Holmes would
have been on to it at once; found where it was sold
in no time; discovered who bought it before five
minutes had passed; and paralysed Watson with the
whole story that same evening over a pipeful of shag.
We shall see.”</p>

<p>He threw a last glance round the empty terrace
and then moved off into the spinney. As he passed
into the shadow of the trees he saw, a few yards to
one side, the outline of the Fairy House dappled in
the moonshine which filtered through the leaves
overhead. Half-unconsciously, Michael halted and
looked at the little building.</p>

<p>“They could never have overlooked that in the
hunt, surely. Well, no harm in having a peep to
make certain.”</p>

<p>He dropped his coil of rope, stepped across to the
house, and, stooping down, flung open the door.
Inside, he caught a flash of some white fabric.</p>

<p>“It’s the beggar after all! Here! Come out of
that!”</p>

<p>He gripped the inmate roughly and hauled him by
main force out of his retreat.</p>

<p>“Pierrot costume, right enough!” he said to himself
as he extracted the man little by little from his
refuge. Then, having got his victim into the open:</p>

<p>“Now we’ll turn you over and have a look at your
face . . . Good God! Maurice!”</p>

<p>For as he turned the man on his back, it was the
face of Maurice Chacewater that met his eyes. But
it was not a normal Maurice whom he saw. The
features were contorted by some excessive emotion
the like of which Michael had never seen.</p>

<p>“Let me alone, damn you,” Maurice gasped, and
turned over once more on his face, resting his brow
on his arm as though to shut out the spectacle of
Michael’s astonishment.</p>

<p>“Are you ill?” Michael inquired, solicitously.</p>

<p>“For God’s sake leave me alone. Don’t stand there
gaping. Clear out, I tell you.”</p>

<p>Michael looked at him in amazement.</p>

<p>“I’m going to have a cheerful kind of brother-in-law
before all’s done, it seems,” he thought to
himself.</p>

<p>“Can I do anything for you, Maurice?”</p>

<p>“Oh, go to hell!”</p>

<p>Michael turned away.</p>

<p>“It’s fairly clear he doesn’t like my company,” he
reflected, as he stepped across and picked up his coil
of rope from the ground. “But I’ve known politer
ways of showing it, I must say.”</p>

<p>With a final glance at the prostrate figure of
Maurice, he walked on and took the road back to
Ravensthorpe. But as he went a vision of Maurice’s
face kept passing before his mind’s eye.</p>

<p>“There’s something damned far wrong with that
beggar, whether it’s an evil conscience or cramp in
the tummy. It might be either of them, by the look
of him. He didn’t seem to want any assistance from
me. That looks more like the evil conscience theory.”</p>

<p>He dismissed this with a laugh; but gradually he
grew troubled.</p>

<p>“There he was, in white—same as the burglar.
He’s in a bit of a bate at being discovered, that’s
clear enough. He didn’t half like it, to judge by his
chat.”</p>

<p>A discomforting hypothesis began to frame itself
in his mind despite his efforts to stifle it.</p>

<p>“He’s the fellow, if there is one, who would know
all these secret passages about here. Suppose there
really is one leading out of that cave. He could have
swarmed down the rope, got into the cave, sneaked
up the subterranean passage, and got behind us that
way.”</p>

<p>A fresh fact fitted suddenly in.</p>

<p>“And of course the other end of the passage may
be in that Fairy House! That would explain his
being there. He’d be waiting to see us off the premises
before he could venture out in his white costume.”</p>

<p>He pondered over the problem as he hurried with
long strides towards the house.</p>

<p>“Well,” he concluded, “I’m taking no further
steps in the business. It’s no concern of mine to go
probing into the private affairs of the family I’m
going to marry into. And that’s that.”</p>

<p>Then, as a fresh aspect of the matter came to his
mind, he gave a sigh of relief.</p>

<p>“I must be a stricken idiot! No man would ever
dream of burgling his own house. What would he
gain by it, if he did? The thing’s ridiculous.”</p>

<p>And the comfort which this view brought him was
sufficient to lighten his steps for the rest of his way.</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch05">

<h2>CHAPTER V. <br/> Sir Clinton in the Museum</h2>

<p>“There’s the light on again in the museum,” Sir
Clinton observed. “I think we’ll go in and have a
look round, now, to see if the place suggests
anything.”</p>

<p>Mold stood aside to let them pass, and then resumed
his watch at the door to prevent any one else
from entering the room. The servant had just
finished fitting the new globe in its place and was
preparing to remove the steps which he had used,
when Sir Clinton ordered him to leave them in
position and to await further instructions.</p>

<p>The museum was a room about forty feet square,
with a lofty ceiling. To judge by the panelling of
the walls, it belonged to the older part of
Ravensthorpe; but the parquet of the floor seemed to be
much more modern. Round the sides were placed
exhibition cases about six feet high; and others of
the same kind jutted out at intervals to form a
series of shallow bays. In the centre of the room,
directly under the lamp, stood a long, flat-topped
case; and the floor beside it was littered with broken
glass.</p>

<p>“I think we’ll begin at the beginning,” said Sir
Clinton.</p>

<p>He turned to the servant who stood waiting
beside the steps.</p>

<p>“Have you got the remains of the broken lamp
there?</p>

<p>“You can go now,” he added. “We shan’t need you
further.”</p>

<p>When he had received the smashed lamp, he
examined it.</p>

<p>“Not much to be made out of that,” he admitted.
“It’s been one of these thousand candle-power gas-filled
things; and there’s practically nothing left of
it but the metal base and a few splinters of glass
sticking to it.”</p>

<p>He looked up at the fresh lamp hanging above
them.</p>

<p>“It’s thirty feet or so above the floor. Nothing
short of a fishing-rod would reach it. Evidently they
didn’t smash it by hand.”</p>

<p>He stooped down and sorted out one or two
small fragments of glass from the debris at his
feet.</p>

<p>“These are more bits of the lamp, Joan,” he said,
holding them out for her to look at. “You see the
curve of the glass; and you’ll notice that the whole
affair seems to have been smashed almost to smithereens.
There doesn’t seem to be a decent-sized
fragment in the whole lot.”</p>

<p>He turned to the keeper.</p>

<p>“I think we’ll shut the door, Mold. We’d better
conduct the rest of this business in private.”</p>

<p>The keeper closed the door of the museum, much
to the disappointment of the group of people who had
clustered about the entrance and were watching the
proceedings with interest.</p>

<p>“Now, Joan, would you mind going round the
wall-cases and seeing if anything has been taken from
them?”</p>

<p>Joan obediently paced round the room and soon
came back to report that nothing seemed to have
been removed.</p>

<p>“All the cases were locked, you know,” she
explained. “And there’s no glass broken in any of
them. So far as I can see, nothing’s missing from the
shelves.”</p>

<p>“What about that safe let into the wall over
yonder?” Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“It’s used to house one or two extra valuable
things from time to time,” Joan explained. “But
to-night everything was put on show, and the safe’s
empty.”</p>

<p>She went over and swung the door open, showing
the vacant shelves within.</p>

<p>“We do take precautions usually,” she pointed
out. “The museum door itself is iron-plated and has
a special lock. It was only to-night that we had
everything out in the show-cases.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refrained from comment, as he knew
the girl was still blaming herself for her share in the
catastrophe. He turned to examine the rifled section
of the central case.</p>

<p>“What’s missing here, Joan, can you make out?”</p>

<p>Obediently, Joan came to his side and ran her eye
over the remaining articles in the compartment.</p>

<p>“They’ve taken the Medusa Medallions!” she
exclaimed, turning pale as she realized the magnitude
of the calamity. “They’ve got the very pick of the
collection, Sir Clinton. My father would have parted
with all the rest rather than with these, I know.”</p>

<p>“Nothing else gone?”</p>

<p>Joan looked again at the case.</p>

<p>“No, nothing else, so far as I can see. Wait a bit,
though! They’ve taken the electrotype copies as
well. There were three of each: three medallions
and an electrotype from each that Foxton Polegate
made for us. The whole six are gone.”</p>

<p>She cast a final glance at the compartment.</p>

<p>“No, there’s nothing else missing, so far as I can
see. Some of the things are displaced a bit; but
everything except the medallions and the electros
seems to be here.”</p>

<p>“You’re quite sure?”</p>

<p>“Certain.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed satisfied.</p>

<p>“Of course we’ll have to check the stuff by the
catalogue to make sure,” he said, “but I expect you’re
right. The medallions alone would be quite a good
enough haul for a minute or two’s work; and probably
they had their eyes on the things as the best
paying proposition of the lot.”</p>

<p>“But why did they take the electros as well?”
Joan demanded.</p>

<p>Then a possible explanation occurred to her.</p>

<p>“Oh, of course, they wouldn’t know which was
which, so they took the lot in order to make sure.”</p>

<p>“Possibly,” Sir Clinton admitted. “But don’t let’s
be going too fast, Joan. We’d better not get ideas
into our minds till we’ve got all the evidence, you
know.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I see,” said Joan, with a faint return of her
normal spirits, “I’m to be Watson, am I? And
you’ll prove in a minute or two what an ass I’ve made
of myself. Is that the idea?”</p>

<p>“Not altogether,” Sir Clinton returned, with a
smile. “But let’s have the facts before the theories.”</p>

<p>He turned to the keeper.</p>

<p>“Now we’ll take your story, Mold; but give us
the things in the exact order in which they happened,
if you can. And don’t be worried if I break in with
questions.”</p>

<p>Mold thought for a moment or two before
beginning his tale.</p>

<p>“I’m trying to remember how many people there
were in the room just before the lights went out,” he
explained at last, “but somehow I don’t quite seem
able to put a figure on it, Sir Clinton. I’ve a sort of
feeling that some of ’em must ha’ got away before I
stopped the door—sneaked off in the dark. At least
I know I felt surprised when I saw how few I’d got
left when they began to come up to me to be let out.
But that’s all I can really say, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton evidently approved of the keeper’s
caution.</p>

<p>“Now tell us exactly what happened when the
light went out. This is the bit where I want you to be
careful. Tell us everything you can remember.”</p>

<p>Mold fixed his eye on the corner of the room near
the safe.</p>

<p>“I was patrollin’ round the room, sir, most of the
night. I didn’t stand in one place all the time. Now
just when the light was about to go out, I was walkin’
away from this case here”—he nodded towards the
rifled central case—“and as near as may be, I’d got to
the entrance to that second-last bay, just before you
come to the safe. I just turned round to come back,
when I heard a pistol goin’ off.”</p>

<p>“That was the first thing that attracted your
attention?” questioned Sir Clinton. “It’s an important
point, Mold.”</p>

<p>“That was the first thing out o’ the common that
happened,” Mold asserted. “The pistol went bang,
and out went the light, and I heard glass tinkling
all over the place.”</p>

<p>“Shot the light out, did they?” Sir Clinton
mused.</p>

<p>He glanced up at the carved wooden ceiling, but
evidently failed to find what he was looking for.</p>

<p>“Have you a pair of race-glasses, Joan? Prismatics,
or even opera-glasses? Tell Mold where he
can get them, please.”</p>

<p>Joan gave the keeper instructions and he left the
room.</p>

<p>“Knock when you come back again,” Sir Clinton
ordered. “I’m going to lock the door to keep out
the inquisitive.”</p>

<p>As soon as the keeper was out of earshot, Sir
Clinton turned to Joan.</p>

<p>“This fellow Mold, is he a reliable man? Do you
know anything about him, Joan?”</p>

<p>“He’s our head keeper. We’ve always trusted him
completely.”</p>

<p>She glanced at Sir Clinton, trying to read the
expression on his face.</p>

<p>“You don’t think <em>he’s</em> at the bottom of the business,
do you? I never thought of that!”</p>

<p>“I’m only collecting facts at present. All I want
to know is whether you know Mold to be reliable.”</p>

<p>“We’ve always found him so.”</p>

<p>“Good. We’ll make a note of that; and if we get
the thing cleared up, then we’ll perhaps be able to
confirm that opinion of yours.”</p>

<p>In a few minutes a knock came at the door and
Sir Clinton admitted the keeper.</p>

<p>“Prismatics?” he said, taking the glasses from
Mold. “They’ll do quite well.”</p>

<p>Adjusting the focus, he subjected the ceiling of the
room to a minute scrutiny. At last he handed the
glasses to Joan.</p>

<p>“Look up there,” he said, indicating the position.</p>

<p>Joan swept the place with the glasses for a
moment.</p>

<p>“I see,” she said. “That’s a bullet-hole in the
wood, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton confirmed her guess.</p>

<p>“That’s evidently where the bullet went after
knocking the lamp to pieces. Pull the steps over
there, Mold. I want to have a closer look at the
thing.”</p>

<p>With some difficulty, owing to his injured ankle,
he ascended the steps and inspected the tiny cavity.</p>

<p>“It looks like a .22 calibre. One could carry a
Colt pistol of that size in one’s pocket and no one
would notice it.”</p>

<p>His eye traced out the line joining the bullet-mark
and the lamp.</p>

<p>“The shot was evidently fired by some one in that
bay over there,” he inferred. “Just go to where you
were standing when the light went out, Mold. Can
you see into this bay here?”</p>

<p>Mold looked around and discovered that a show-case
interposed between him and the point from
which the pistol had been fired.</p>

<p>“They evidently thought of everything,” Sir Clinton
said, when he heard Mold’s report. “If a man
had brandished his pistol in front of Mold, there was
always a chance that Mold might have remembered
his costume. Firing from that hiding-place, he was
quite safe, and could take time over his aim if he
wanted to.”</p>

<p>He climbed down the steps and verified the matter
by going to the position from which the shot had been
fired. It was evident that the shooter was out of
sight of the keeper at the actual moment of the
discharge.</p>

<p>“Now what happened after that, Mold?” Sir
Clinton demanded, coming back to the central case
again.</p>

<p>Mold scratched his ear as though reflecting, then
hurriedly took his hand down again.</p>

<p>“This pistol went off, sir; and the lamp-glass
tinkled all over the place. I got a start—who
wouldn’t?—with the light going out, and all. Before
I could move an inch, some one got a grip of my
wrists and swung me round. He twisted my arms
behind my back and I couldn’t do anything but
kick—and not much kickin’ even, or I’d have gone down
on my face.”</p>

<p>“Did you manage to get home on him at all?”</p>

<p>“I think I kicked him once, sir; but it was only a
graze.”</p>

<p>“Pity,” Sir Clinton said. “It would have always
been something gained if you’d marked him with a
good bruise.”</p>

<p>“Oh, there’ll be a mark, if that’s all you want, sir.
But it wouldn’t prevent him runnin’ at all.”</p>

<p>“And then?” Sir Clinton brought Mold back to
his story.</p>

<p>“Then, almost at once when the lights went out, I
heard glass breakin’—just as if you’d heaved a stone
through a window. It seemed to me—but I couldn’t
take my oath on it—as if there was two smashes, one
after t’other. I couldn’t be sure. Then there was a
lot of scufflin’ in the dark; but who did it, I couldn’t
rightly say. I was busy tryin’ to get free from the
man who was holdin’ me then.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton moved over to the rifled compartment
and inspected the broken glass thoughtfully for a
moment or two.</p>

<p>“Are you looking for finger-marks?” asked Joan,
as she came to his side.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“Not much use hunting for finger-marks round
here. Remember how many people must have leaned
on this case at one time or other during the evening,
when they were looking at the collection before the
robbery. Finger-prints would prove nothing against
any one in particular, I’m afraid, Joan. What I’m
really trying to find is some evidence confirming
Mold’s notion that he heard two smashes after the
light went out. It certainly looks as if he were right.
If you look at the way that bit of glass there is
cracked, you’ll see two series of lines in it. It might
have been cracked here”—he pointed with his
finger—“first of all: long cracks radiating from a smash
over in this direction. Then there was a second
blow—about here—which snapped off the apices of the
spears of glass left after the first smash. But that
really proves nothing. The same man might easily
have hit the pane twice.”</p>

<p>He turned back to the keeper.</p>

<p>“Can you give me an estimate, Mold, of how long
it was between the two crashes you heard?”</p>

<p>Mold considered carefully before replying.</p>

<p>“So far’s I can remember, Sir Clinton, it was about
five seconds. But I’ll not take my oath on it.”</p>

<p>“I wish you could be surer,” said the Chief Constable.
“If it really was five seconds, it certainly
looks like two separate affairs. A man smashing glass
with repeated blows wouldn’t wait five seconds
between them.”</p>

<p>He scanned the broken glass again.</p>

<p>“There’s a lot of jagged stuff round the edge of
the hole but no blood, so far as I can see. The fellow
must have worn a thick glove if he got his hand in
there in the dark without cutting himself in the
hurry.”</p>

<p>He turned back to the keeper.</p>

<p>“You can go outside, Mold, and keep people off
the doorstep for a minute or two. Perhaps we shall
have news of the man-hunt soon. If any one wants
to see me on business; let him in; but keep off casual
inquirers for the present.”</p>

<p>Obediently Mold unlocked the door and took his
stand on the threshold outside, shutting the door
behind him as he went. When he had gone, Sir
Clinton turned to Joan.</p>

<p>“Were these medallions insured, do you know?”</p>

<p>Fortunately, Joan was able to supply some
information.</p>

<p>“Maurice insured them, I know. But I’ve heard
him say that he wasn’t content with the valuation
put on them by the company. It seems they wouldn’t
take his word for the value of the things—they
thought it was a speculative one or something—and
in case of a loss they weren’t prepared to go beyond
a figure which Maurice thought too small.”</p>

<p>“The electros weren’t insured for any great
amount, I suppose?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“I don’t think they were specially insured. They
were just put under the ordinary house policy, I
think. But you’d better ask Maurice. He knows all
about it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced round the room once more.</p>

<p>“I doubt if there’s much more to find out here,”
he concluded. “It doesn’t give us much to go on, does
it? Perhaps we’ll have better luck when these fellows
come in from their hunt. They may have some news
for us. But as things stand, we can’t even be sure
whether it was two men or two gangs that were at
work. One can’t blame Mold for not giving us better
information; but what he gave us doesn’t seem to
amount to very much at present.”</p>

<p>He turned, as though to leave the room; but at
that moment the door opened and Mold appeared.</p>

<p>“There’s a Mr. Foss wants to see you, sir. He
says he’s got something to tell you that won’t wait.
He’s been looking for you all over the house.”</p>

<p>“That’s the American, isn’t it?” Sir Clinton asked
Joan in a low voice.</p>

<p>“Yes. He’s been here for a day or two,
consulting with Maurice about these medallions.”</p>

<p>“Well, if he can throw any light on this business,
I suppose we’d better let him in and see what he has
to say. You needn’t go, Joan. You may as well hear
his story, whatever it may be.”</p>

<p>He turned to the keeper.</p>

<p>“Let Mr. Foss in, Mold; and wait outside the
door yourself.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch06">

<h2>CHAPTER VI. <br/> Mr. Foss’s Explanation</h2>

<p>Mr. Foss had nothing distinctively American in
his appearance, Sir Clinton noted; and when he
spoke, his accent was so faint as to be hardly detectable.
He was a stout man of about fifty, with a clean-shaven
face and more than a trace of a double chin:
the kind of man who might readily be chosen as an
unofficial uncle by children. Sir Clinton’s first glance
showed him that the American was troubled about
something.</p>

<p>Foss seemed surprised to find the Chief Constable
in the guise of Prospero. He himself, in preparation
for an official interview, had exchanged his
masquerade costume for ordinary evening clothes.</p>

<p>“We haven’t met before, Sir Clinton,” he explained,
rather unnecessarily, “but I’ve something to
tell you”—his face clouded slightly—“which I felt
you ought to know before you go any further in this
business. I’ve been hunting all over the house for
you; and it was only a minute or two ago that I got
directed in here.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” said Sir Clinton, interrogatively.</p>

<p>Foss glanced at Joan and seemed to find some
difficulty in opening the subject.</p>

<p>“It’s a strictly private matter,” he explained.</p>

<p>Joan refused to take the implied hint.</p>

<p>“If it has any connection with this burglary, Mr.
Foss, I see no reason why I should not hear what you
have to say. It’s a matter that concerns me as one of
the family, you know.”</p>

<p>Foss seemed taken aback and quite evidently he
would have preferred to make his confidence to Sir
Clinton alone.</p>

<p>“It’s rather a difficult matter,” he said, with a
feeble endeavour to deflect Joan from her purpose.</p>

<p>Joan, however, took no notice of his diffidence.</p>

<p>“Come, Mr. Foss,” she said. “If it’s really important,
the sooner Sir Clinton hears of it the better.
Begin.”</p>

<p>Foss glanced appealingly at Sir Clinton; but
apparently the Chief Constable took Joan’s view of the
matter.</p>

<p>“I’m rather busy at present, Mr. Foss,” he said,
dryly. “Perhaps you’ll give us your information as
concisely as possible.”</p>

<p>Having failed in his attempt, Foss made the best
of it; though it was with obvious reluctance that he
launched into his subject.</p>

<p>“Last night after dinner,” he began, “I went into
the winter-garden to smoke a cigar. I had some
business affairs which I wanted to put straight in my
mind; and I thought I could stow myself away in a
corner there and be free from interruption. So I sat
down at one side of the winter-garden behind a large
clump of palms where no one was likely to see me;
and I began to think over the points I had in mind.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” prompted Sir Clinton, who seemed anxious
to cut Foss’s narrative down to essentials.</p>

<p>“While I was sitting there,” the American
continued, “some of the young people came into the
winter-garden and sat down in a recess on the side
opposite to where I was. At first they didn’t disturb
me. I thought they’d be almost out of earshot, on the
other side of the dome. I think you were one of them,
Miss Chacewater: you, and your brother, and Miss
Rainhill, and some one else whom I didn’t
recognize.”</p>

<p>“I was there,” Joan confirmed, looking rather
puzzled as to what might come next.</p>

<p>“You may not know, Miss Chacewater,” Foss
continued, “that your winter-garden is a sort of
whispering-gallery. Although I was quite a long way
off from your party, your voices came quite clearly
across to where I was sitting. They didn’t disturb
me at all—I’ve got the knack of concentration when
I’m thinking about business affairs. But although I
wasn’t listening intentionally, the whole conversation
was getting in at my ear while I was thinking about
other things. I suppose I ought to have gone away or
let you know I was there; but the fact is, I’d just
got to a point where I was seeing my way through a
rather knotty tangle, and I didn’t want to break my
chain of thought. I wasn’t eavesdropping, you
understand?”</p>

<p>“Yes?” repeated Sir Clinton, with a slight acidity
in his tone. “And then?”</p>

<p>But the American failed to take the hint. Evidently
he laid great stress on explaining exactly how
things had fallen out.</p>

<p>“After a while,” he went on, with an evident effort
to be accurate, “Miss Chacewater and some one else
left the party.”</p>

<p>“Quite true,” Joan confirmed. “We went to play
billiards.”</p>

<p>The American nodded.</p>

<p>“When you had gone,” he continued, “some one
else joined the party—a red-haired young man whom
they called Foxy.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced at Joan.</p>

<p>“That’s Foxton Polegate,” Joan explained. “He’s
a neighbour of ours. He made these electrotypes of
the medallions for us.”</p>

<p>Foss waited patiently till she had finished her
interjection. Then he resumed his narrative.</p>

<p>“Shortly after that, my ear caught the sound of
my own name. Naturally my attention was attracted,
quite without any intention on my part. It’s
only natural to prick up your ears when you hear
your own name mentioned.”</p>

<p>He looked apologetically at them both as if asking
them to condone his conduct.</p>

<p>“The next thing I heard—without listening
intentionally, you understand?—was ‘Medusa
Medallions.’ Now, as you know, I’ve been sent over here
by Mr. Kessock to see if I can arrange to buy these
medallions from Mr. Chacewater. It’s my duty to
my employer to get to know all I can about them.
I wouldn’t be earning my money if I spared any
trouble in the work which has been put into my
hands. So when I heard the name of the medallions
mentioned, I . . . frankly, I listened with both ears.
It seemed to me my duty to Mr. Kessock to do so.”</p>

<p>He looked appealingly at their faces as though to
plead for a favourable verdict on his conduct.</p>

<p>“Go on, please,” Sir Clinton requested.</p>

<p>“I hardly expected you’d look on it as I do,” Foss
confessed rather shamefacedly. “Of course, it was
just plain eavesdropping on my part by that time.
But I felt Mr. Kessock would have expected me to
find out all I could about these medallions. To be
candid, I’d do the same again; though I didn’t like
doing it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to feel that he had been rather
discouraging.</p>

<p>“I shouldn’t make too much of it, Mr. Foss. What
happened next?”</p>

<p>Foss’s face showed that he was at last coming to
a matter of real difficulty.</p>

<p>“It’s rather unfortunate that I came to be mixed
up in the thing at all,” he said, with obvious chagrin.
“I can assure you, Miss Chacewater, that I don’t like
doing it. I only made up my mind to tell you about
it because it seems to me to give a chance of hushing
this supposed burglary up quietly before there’s any
talk goes round.”</p>

<p>“<em>Supposed</em> burglary,” exclaimed Joan. “What’s
your idea of a real burglary, if this sort of thing is
only a supposed one?”</p>

<p>She indicated the shattered show-case and the
litter of glass on the floor.</p>

<p>Foss evidently decided to take the rest of his
narrative in a rush.</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you,” he said. “The next thing I
overheard was a complete plan for a fake burglary—a
practical joke—to be carried out to-night. The light
in here was to be put out; the house-lights were to
be extinguished: and in the darkness, your brother
and this Mr. Foxy How-d’you-call-him were to get
away with the medallions.”</p>

<p>“Ah, Mr. Foss, now you become interesting,” Sir
Clinton acknowledged.</p>

<p>“I heard all the details,” Foss went on. “How Miss
Rainhill was to see to extinguishing the lights; how
Mr. Chacewater was to secure the keeper; and how
meanwhile his friend was to put on a thick glove
and take the medallions out of the case there. And
it seems to me that it was a matter that interested me
directly,” he added, dropping his air of apology,
“for I gathered that the whole affair was planned
with some idea of making this sale to Mr. Kessock
fall through at the last moment.”</p>

<p>“Indeed?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s face showed that at last he saw
something more clearly than before.</p>

<p>“That was the motive,” Foss continued. “Now
the whole thing put me in a most awkward
position.”</p>

<p>“I think I see your difficulty,” Sir Clinton assured
him, with more geniality than he had hitherto
shown.</p>

<p>“It was very hard to make up my mind what to
do,” Foss went on. “I’m a guest here. This was a
family joke, apparently—one brother taking a rise
out of another. It was hardly for me to step in and
perhaps cause bad feelings between them. I thought
the whole thing was perhaps just talk—not meant
seriously in the end. A kind of
‘how-would-we-do-it-if-we-set-about-it’ discussion, you understand.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded understandingly.</p>

<p>“Difficult to know what to do, in your shoes,
undoubtedly.”</p>

<p>Foss was obviously relieved by the Chief
Constable’s comprehension.</p>

<p>“I thought it over,” he continued, with a less
defensive tone in his voice, “and it seemed to me that
the soundest course was to let sleeping dogs lie—to
let them lie, at any rate, until they woke up and bit
somebody. I made up my mind I’d say nothing about
the matter at all, unless something really did
happen.”</p>

<p>“Very judicious,” Sir Clinton acquiesced.</p>

<p>“Then came to-night,” Foss resumed. “Their plan
went through. I don’t know what success they had—the
house is full of all sorts of rumours. But I heard
that the Chief Constable was on the spot and was
taking up the case himself; and as soon as I heard
that, I felt I ought to tell what I knew. So I hunted
you out, so as to avoid your taking any steps before
you knew just how the land lay. It’s only a practical
joke and not a crime at all. I don’t know anything
about your English laws, and I was afraid you might
be taking some steps, doing something or other that
would make it impossible to stop short of the whole
affair coming out in public. I’m sure the family
wouldn’t like that.”</p>

<p>He glanced at Joan’s face, but evidently found
nothing very encouraging in her expression.</p>

<p>“It’s been a most unfortunate position for me,” he
complained.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took pity on him.</p>

<p>“It was very good of you to give me these facts,”
he said with more cordiality than he had hitherto
shown. “You’ve cleared up the thing and saved us
from putting our foot in it badly, perhaps. Thanks
very much for your trouble, Mr. Foss. You’ve been
of great assistance.”</p>

<p>His tone showed that the interview was at an end;
but, tactfully, as though to spare the obviously ruffled
feelings of the American, he accompanied him to the
door. When Foss had left the room, Sir Clinton
turned back to Joan.</p>

<p>“Well, Joan, what about it?”</p>

<p>“Oh, it sounds accurate enough,” Joan admitted,
though there was an undercurrent of resentment in
her tone. “Foss couldn’t have known what sort of
person Foxy is; and it’s as clear as daylight that
Foxy was at the bottom of this. He’s a silly ass who’s
always playing practical jokes.”</p>

<p>She paused for a moment. Then relief showed
itself in her voice as she added:</p>

<p>“It’s rather a blessing to know the whole affair has
been just spoof, isn’t it? You can hush it up easily
enough, can’t you? Nobody need know exactly what
happened; and then we’ll be all right. If this story
comes out, all our little family bickerings will be
common talk; and one doesn’t want that. I’m not exactly
proud of the way Maurice has been treating Cecil.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s face showed that he understood her
position; but, rather to her surprise, he gave no
verbal assurance.</p>

<p>“It <em>is</em> all right!” she demanded.</p>

<p>“I think we’ll interview your friend Foxy first of
all,” Sir Clinton proposed, taking no notice of her
inquiry.</p>

<p>Going to the door, he gave some orders to the
keeper.</p>

<p>“You were rather stiff with our good Mr. Foss,”
he said, turning to Joan as he closed the door again.
“What would you have done yourself, if you’d been
in his position?”</p>

<p>Joan had her answer ready.</p>

<p>“I suppose he couldn’t help overhearing things;
but when this affair came to light, I think if I’d been
in his shoes I’d have gone to Cecil instead of coming
to us with the tale. Once Cecil found the game
was up, he’d have been able to return the
medallions in some way or other, without raising any
dust.”</p>

<p>“That was one way, certainly.”</p>

<p>“What I object to is Foss coming to you,” Joan
explained. “He didn’t know you’re an old friend of
ours. All he knew was that you were the Chief Constable.
So off he hies to you, post-haste, to give the
whole show away; when he might quite well have
come to me or gone to Cecil. I don’t like this way of
doing things—no tact at all.”</p>

<p>“I can’t conceive how Cecil came to take up a silly
prank like this,” said Sir Clinton. “It’s a schoolboy’s
trick.”</p>

<p>“You don’t know everything,” said Joan, in
defence of her brother.</p>

<p>“I know a good deal, Joan,” Sir Clinton retorted in
a decisive tone. “Perhaps I know more than you
think about this business.”</p>

<p>In a few minutes the keeper knocked at the door.</p>

<p>“Well?” demanded Sir Clinton, opening it.</p>

<p>“I can’t find Mr. Polegate anywhere, sir,” Mold
reported. “No one’s seen him; and he’s not in the
house.”</p>

<p>“He was here to-night,” Joan declared. “I recognized
him when I was dancing with him. You can’t
mistake that shock of hair; and of course his voice
gave him away when he spoke.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton did not seem perturbed.</p>

<p>“Bring Mr. Cecil, Mold,” he ordered, and locked
the door again as the keeper went off on his fresh
errand.</p>

<p>This task Mold completed in a very short time.
Sir Clinton opened at his knock and Cecil
Chacewater came into the museum. He was dressed as a
Swiss admiral and behind him came Una Rainhill
in the costume of Cleopatra.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton wasted no time in preliminaries.</p>

<p>“I’ve sent for you, Cecil, because I want to know
exactly what part you played in this business
to-night.”</p>

<p>Cecil Chacewater opened his eyes in astonishment.</p>

<p>“You seem to be a bit of a super-sleuth! How did
you spot us so quickly?”</p>

<p>Quite obviously Cecil was not greatly perturbed at
being found out, as Sir Clinton noted with a certain
relief. So far as he was concerned, the thing had been
only a prank.</p>

<p>“Tell me exactly what happened after you came in
here before the lights went out,” the Chief
Constable demanded in a curt tone.</p>

<p>Cecil glanced at Una. Sir Clinton caught the look.</p>

<p>“We know all about Miss Rainhill’s part in the
affair,” he explained bluntly.</p>

<p>“Oh, in that case,” said Cecil, “there’s no
particular reason why I should keep back anything.
Una, Foxy, and I planned it between us. I take full
responsibility for that. I wanted to upset this sale, if
I could. I’m not ashamed of that.”</p>

<p>“I know all about that,” Sir Clinton pointed out,
coldly. “What I wish to know is exactly what
happened after you came in here to steal these
medallions.”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed impressed by the Chief Constable’s
tone.</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you, then. We’ve nothing to conceal. I
came in here at about twenty to twelve and sauntered
about the room, pretending to look at the cases as if
I’d never seen them before. My part was to mark
down Mold and prevent him interfering.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded to show that he knew all
this.</p>

<p>“Rather before I expected it, the light went out.
Oh, there was a shot fired just then. I didn’t
understand that part of it, but I supposed that Foxy had
brought a pistol with him and fired a blank cartridge
just to add a touch of interest to the affair. It wasn’t
on the bill of fare, so I imagine it must have been
one of these last-minute improvements. Anyhow, I
did my part of the business: jumped on Mold and
held him while Foxy got away with the stuff. Then,
when he’d had time to get away, I let Mold go and
made a bee-line for the door myself. I could swear no
one spotted me in the dark, and I was well mixed up
in the mob before the lights went on again.”</p>

<p>“Did you pay particular attention to what
Polegate was doing while you were busy with the
keeper?”</p>

<p>“No. Mold gave me all I wanted in the way of
trouble.”</p>

<p>“You’re sure it was Mold you got hold of? You
didn’t make any mistake?”</p>

<p>Cecil reflected for a moment.</p>

<p>“I don’t see how I could have gripped the wrong
man. I’d marked him down while the light was on.”</p>

<p>“Can you remember anything about sounds of
breaking glass?”</p>

<p>Cecil pondered before replying.</p>

<p>“It seemed to me that there was a lot of
glass-breaking—more than I’d expected. The light was
hardly out before there was a smash and tinkle all
over the place. Foxy must have got to work quicker
than I’d allowed for. And I remember hearing quite
a lot of hammering and smashing going on after that,
as if he’d found it difficult to make a big enough
hole in the glass of the case. I thought he’d bungled
the business, and it was all I could do to keep my
grip on Mold long enough to get the thing safely
through.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton dismissed that part of the subject. He
turned to Una.</p>

<p>“Now, Miss Rainhill, I believe your part in the
affair was to pull out the main switch of the house?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” Una admitted, looking rather surprised at
the extent of his knowledge.</p>

<p>“Did you carry out your part of the arrangement
punctually, or were you late in getting the current
off?”</p>

<p>“I pulled out the switch to the very second. I had
my hand on it and my eye on my wrist-watch; and
when it came to 11.45 I jerked it out and the lights
went off. I was absolutely right to a second, I’m
sure.”</p>

<p>“And you thought Miss Rainhill had been a shade
before her time, Cecil?”</p>

<p>“So it seemed to me. I hadn’t a chance of looking
at my watch; and of course after the lights went off I
couldn’t spare time to look.”</p>

<p>At this moment another knock came to the door
and Foxy Polegate burst into the museum. Sir
Clinton noticed that he was masquerading as a
Harlequin.</p>

<p>“Heard you’d been asking for me, Sir Clinton,” he
broke out as he came into the room. “Seems the
keeper had been inquiring for me. So I came along
as soon as I heard about it.”</p>

<p>He glanced inquisitively at Cecil and Una, as
though wondering what they were doing there.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton wasted no words.</p>

<p>“The medallions, Mr. Polegate, please.”</p>

<p>Foxy made a very good pretence of astonishment
at the demand; but Cecil cut him short.</p>

<p>“You may as well hand them over, Foxy. They
seem to know all about the joke.”</p>

<p>“Oh, they do, do they?” Foxy exclaimed. “They
seem to have been mighty swift about it. That little
joke’s gone astray, evidently.”</p>

<p>He seemed completely taken aback by the
exposure.</p>

<p>“The medallions?” he repeated. “I’ll get ’em for
you in a jiffy.”</p>

<p>He walked across to the show-case, fumbled for
a moment at the flat base near one of the legs, and
from below this he drew out three medallions.</p>

<p>“Stuck ’em there with plasticine as soon as I’d got
’em. After that any one would have turned out my
pockets if they’d wanted, see?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton held out his hand and took the
medallions from Foxy. For a moment or two he examined
them, then he passed them to Cecil.</p>

<p>“Have you any way of telling easily whether these
are the real things or the replicas?”</p>

<p>Cecil inspected them one by one with minute care.</p>

<p>“These are the real things,” he announced. “What
else could they be?”</p>

<p>“You’ve no doubt about it?” questioned Sir
Clinton.</p>

<p>“Not a bit,” Cecil assured him. “When Foxy
made the replicas, my father had a tiny hole—just a
dot—drilled in the edge of each electrotype so as to
distinguish the real things from the sham. There are
no holes here; so these are the real Leonardos.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton swung round suddenly on Foxy.</p>

<p>“Now, Mr. Polegate,” he said, sternly, “you’ve
given a lot of trouble with this silly joke of yours.
I’m not concerned with your taste in humour, or I
might say a few things you wouldn’t care to hear.
But you can repair the damage to some extent if you
give me a frank account of your doings in here
to-night. I want the whole story, please.”</p>

<p>Foxy was evidently completely taken aback by Sir
Clinton’s tone.</p>

<p>“Come, we’re waiting. There’s no time to lose,”
Sir Clinton said, curtly, as Foxy seemed to hesitate.
Joan and the others showed by their faces that they
could not quite understand the reason for the Chief
Constable’s asperity.</p>

<p>“We planned that . . .”</p>

<p>“I know all about that,” said Sir Clinton,
brusquely. “Begin at the point where you came in
here at twenty to twelve or so.”</p>

<p>Foxy pulled himself together. The Chief
Constable’s manner was not encouraging.</p>

<p>“I came in here as arranged, and worked my way
over to the central case there—slowly, so as not to
attract the keeper’s attention. One or two other
people were hanging round it then, too. I remember
noticing a chap in a white Pierrot costume alongside
me. Suddenly there was a pistol-shot and the light
went out according to plan.”</p>

<p>“How do you account for the pistol-shot?”
demanded Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“Try next door,” said Foxy. “I thought it was a
fancy tip that Cecil had thrown in at the last
moment. It wasn’t in the book of words.”</p>

<p>“You were ready to get to work when the light
went out?” inquired Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>Foxy considered for a moment.</p>

<p>“It took me rather by surprise,” he admitted. “I’d
counted on having at least another minute,
according to the time-table.”</p>

<p>“What happened next? Be careful now.”</p>

<p>“As soon as the light went out, I pulled on a thick
pair of gloves and got a bit of lead pipe out of my
slapstick. But there was a bit of a scuffle in the dark
round the show-case, and some one must have put
their elbow through the glass. I heard it go crash in
the dark. I shoved along till I was opposite the
medallion section of the case—luckily some one made
way for me just then—and I got to work with my
lead pipe. The glass smashed easily—it must have
been cracked before. So I put my hand in and groped
about. I could find only three medallions instead of
six; but I hooked them out, slabbed on some plasticine,
stuck them under the case for future reference,
and cut my stick for the door. Some one was ahead
of me there, and I heard some sort of mix-up in the
dark. Then I wandered out into the garden by the
east door, as soon as I could find it in the dark. And
I’ve been out there having a smoke till now. When I
came in again, I heard you’d been asking for me,
so I came along.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton considered for a moment.</p>

<p>“I want to be quite clear on one point,” he said
with no relaxation of his manner. “You say that you
heard the glass crack before you began your work.
Are you certain of that?”</p>

<p>“Quite,” said Foxy.</p>

<p>“And when you got your hand into the case you
could find only three medallions?”</p>

<p>“That was all. I was groping for the top row of
the six; and naturally it surprised me when I felt
only three altogether. I’m quite certain about it.”</p>

<p>“So you were evidently the second thief at the case
to-night?” Sir Clinton concluded.</p>

<p>Foxy flushed at the word “thief” but a glance at
the face of the Chief Constable evidently persuaded
him that it would be best not to argue on philology at
that moment. He contented himself with nodding
sullenly in response to Sir Clinton’s remark.</p>

<p>Joan relieved the tension.</p>

<p>“Anyhow, we’ve got the medallions safe, and that’s
all that really matters,” she pointed out. “Let’s have
a look at them, Cecil.”</p>

<p>She took them from his hand and scrutinized them
carefully.</p>

<p>“Yes, these are the real Leonardos,” she affirmed,
without hesitation. “That’s all right.”</p>

<p>“Quite all right,” admitted Sir Clinton, with a wry
smile, “except for one point: Why were the replicas
stolen and the real things left untouched?”</p>

<p>“That certainly seems to need explaining,” Una
admitted. “Can you throw any light on it, Foxy?
You’re the only one of us who was near the case.”</p>

<p>There was no hint of accusation in her tone; but
Foxy seemed to read an insinuation into her remark.</p>

<p>“I haven’t got the replicas, if that’s what you
mean, Una,” he protested angrily. “I just took what
was left—and it turns out to be the real things.
Whoever was ahead of me took the duds.”</p>

<p>Cecil considered the point, and then appealed to Sir
Clinton.</p>

<p>“Doesn’t that seem to show that an outsider’s been
at work—some one who knew a certain amount
about the collection, but not quite enough? An
outsider wouldn’t know we had the replicas in the case
alongside the real things. He’d just grab three
medallions and think he’d got away with it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“Your hypothetical outsider, Cecil, must have had
a preliminary look at the case before the lights went
out—just to make sure of getting to the right spot
in the dark. Therefore he must have seen the six
medallions there; and he’d have taken the lot
instead of only three, when he had his chance.”</p>

<p>“That upsets your applecart, Cecil,” said Joan.
“It’s obvious Sir Clinton’s right. Unless”—a fresh
idea seemed to strike her—“unless the thief knew of
the replicas and had wrong information, so that he
imagined he was taking the Leonardos when he really
was grabbing the replicas. I mean he may have
thought that the replicas were in the top row instead
of the lower one.”</p>

<p>She glanced at Sir Clinton’s face to see what
he thought of her suggestion; but he betrayed
nothing.</p>

<p>“Wouldn’t you have taken the whole six, Joan, if
you had been in his shoes?”</p>

<p>Joan had to admit that she would have made
certain by snatching the complete set.</p>

<p>“There’s more in it than that,” was all that Sir
Clinton could be induced to say.</p>

<p>Before any more could be said, the door opened
again. This time it was Michael Clifton who entered
the museum.</p>

<p>“You’ve got him, Michael?” cried Joan. “Who
was he?”</p>

<p>Michael shook his head.</p>

<p>“He got away from us. It’s a damned mysterious
business how he managed it; but he slipped through
our fingers, Joan.”</p>

<p>“Well, tell us what happened—quick!” Joan
ordered. “I didn’t think you’d botch it,
Michael.”</p>

<p>Michael obeyed her at once and launched into an
account of the moonlight chase of the fugitive. Sir
Clinton listened attentively, but interposed no
questions until Michael had finished his story.</p>

<p>“Let’s have this quite clear,” the Chief Constable
said, when the tale had been completed. “You had
him hemmed in at the cliff top; you heard a splash,
but there was no sign of any one swimming in the
lake; you discovered a rope tied to the balustrade
and lying down the cliff-face to the cave-mouth; he
wasn’t in the cave when you looked for him there. Is
that correct?”</p>

<p>“That’s how it happened.”</p>

<p>“You’re sure he didn’t break back through your
cordon?”</p>

<p>“Certain.”</p>

<p>“And you found Maurice in one of the Fairy
Houses in the spinney?”</p>

<p>“Yes. He seemed in a queer state.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, glancing at Cecil’s face, was surprised
to see on it the same expression of almost malicious
glee which he had surprised on the day when they
examined that very Fairy House during their walk.
Quite obviously Cecil knew something more than the
Chief Constable did.</p>

<p>“Does that suggest anything to you, Cecil?” he
demanded point-blank.</p>

<p>At the query, Cecil’s face came back to normal
suddenly.</p>

<p>“To me? No, why should it?”</p>

<p>“I merely wondered,” said Sir Clinton, without
seeming to notice anything.</p>

<p>It was clear that whatever Cecil knew, it was
something which he was not prepared to tell.</p>

<p>Foxy had listened intently to Michael’s narrative,
and as the Chief Constable seemed to have come to
the end of his interrogations, Foxy put a question of
his own.</p>

<p>“You say Maurice was wearing a white Pierrot
costume? So was the fellow you were chasing. So
was the man next me at the case when the lights
went out.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you’re suggesting that Maurice is at
the bottom of the business, Foxy,” Michael replied at
once. “I’ll swallow that if you’ll answer one question.
Why should a man burgle his own house?”</p>

<p>“Lord alone knows,” Foxy admitted humbly. “I’ve
no brain-wave on the subject.”</p>

<p>“It seems rather improbable,” observed Sir Clinton.
“I think you’ll have to produce a motive before
that idea could be accepted.”</p>

<p>He glanced round at the door as he spoke and
added:</p>

<p>“Here’s Maurice himself.”</p>

<p>Maurice Chacewater had entered the room while
the Chief Constable was speaking. He had discarded
his fancy costume and wore ordinary evening-dress,
against the black of which his face looked white and
drawn. He came up to the group and leaned on the
show-case as if for support.</p>

<p>“So you’ve muddled it, Michael,” he commented,
after a pause. “You didn’t get your hands on the
fellow, after all?”</p>

<p>Dismissing Michael with almost open contempt,
he turned to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“What’s the damage? Did the fellow get away
with anything of value?”</p>

<p>“Nothing much: only your three replicas of the
Leonardo medallions, so far as we can see.”</p>

<p>As he spoke, his glance telegraphed a warning to
the rest of the group. It seemed unnecessary that
Maurice should know all the ins and outs of the
night’s doings.</p>

<p>But Foxy evidently failed to grasp the meaning of
the Chief Constable’s look.</p>

<p>“We saved the real medallions for you, Maurice.
Vote of thanks to us, eh?”</p>

<p>“How did you manage that?” Maurice demanded,
with no sign of gratitude in his voice.</p>

<p>Quite oblivious of the warning looks thrown at
him by the rest of the group, Foxy launched at once
into a detailed account of the whole practical joke
and its sequel. Maurice listened frowningly to the
story. When it was completed, he made no direct
comment.</p>

<p>“Who’s got the medallions? You, Joan? I’ll take
them.”</p>

<p>When she had handed them over, he scrutinized
them carefully.</p>

<p>“These seem to be the Leonardo ones,” he
confirmed.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton interposed a question.</p>

<p>“Were the medallions and the replicas in their
usual places to-night, Maurice? I mean, were the real
things in the top row and the electros down below?”</p>

<p>Maurice gave a curt nod of assent. He weighed
the three medallions unconsciously in his hand for a
moment, then moved over to the safe in the wall of
the museum.</p>

<p>“These things will be safer under lock and key,
now,” he said.</p>

<p>He opened the safe, inserted the medallions, closed
the safe-door with a clang, and busied himself with
the combination of the lock.</p>

<p>Before saying anything further, Sir Clinton waited
until Maurice had returned to the group.</p>

<p>“There’s one thing,” he said. “I shall have to look
into this affair officially now. It’s essential that things
shall be left as they are. Especially the place where
that fellow gave you the slip, Clifton. Nobody must
be wandering about there, up at the spinney, until
I’ve done with the ground. There may be clues left,
for all one can tell; and we can’t run the risk of
their being destroyed.”</p>

<p>Maurice looked up gloomily.</p>

<p>“Very well. I’ll give orders to the keepers to patrol
the wood and turn every one back. That do?”</p>

<p>“So long as no one sets foot on anything beyond
the wood, I’ll be quite satisfied. But it’s important,
Maurice. Impress that on your keepers, please.”</p>

<p>Maurice indicated his comprehension with a nod.</p>

<p>“I’ll begin dragging the lakelet up there to-morrow
morning,” Sir Clinton added. “Something must have
gone into the water to make the splash that was
heard; and perhaps we shall find it. I don’t mind
any one going down by the lake side. It’s the top of
the cliff that I want kept intact.”</p>

<p>He looked at his watch.</p>

<p>“You’re on the ’phone here? I must ring up the
police in Hincheldene now and make arrangements
for to-morrow. Show me your ’phone, please, Joan.
And as I must get some sleep to-night, I’ll say
good-bye to the rest of you now. Come along, Ariel. Lead
the way.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch07">

<h2>CHAPTER VII. <br/> What Was in the Lake</h2>

<p>“I was afraid of it,” Sir Clinton observed, as he
lifted the dripping pole with which he had been
sounding the water of the lakelet. “The net will be
no good, Inspector. With these spikes of rock jutting
up from the bottom all over the place, you couldn’t
get a clean sweep; and if there’s anything here at all,
it’s pretty sure to have lodged in one of the cavities
between the spikes.”</p>

<p>It was the morning after the masked ball at
Ravensthorpe. The Chief Constable had made all his
arrangements overnight, so that when he reached the
shore of the artificial lake, everything was in
readiness. The decrepit raft had been strengthened; a
large net had been brought for the purpose of
dragging the pool; and several grapnels had been
procured, in case the net turned out to be useless. Sir
Clinton had gone out on the raft to sound the water
and discover whether the net could be utilized; but
the results had not been encouraging.</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale listened to the verdict with a
rather gloomy face.</p>

<p>“It’s a pity,” he commented regretfully. “Dragging
with the grapnel is a kind of hit-or-miss job,
Sir Clinton; and it’ll take far longer than working
with the net.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced with a gesture.</p>

<p>“We’d better start close in under the cliff-face,”
he said. “If anything came down from the top, it
can’t have gone far before it sank. One of the people
last night was watching the pool and he saw nothing
on the surface after the splash, so it ought to be
somewhere near the cave-mouth. You can pole over
to the shore now, Constable; we’ve done with this
part of the business.”</p>

<p>The constable obeyed the order and soon Sir
Clinton rejoined the Inspector on the bank.</p>

<p>“It’s likely to be a troublesome business,” the
Chief Constable admitted as his subordinate came
up. “The bottom’s very irregular and the chances
are that the grapnel will stick, two times out of
three. However, the sooner we get to work, the
better.”</p>

<p>He considered for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“Tack a light line to the grapnel as well as the
rope. Get the raft out past the cave and let a
constable pitch the grapnel in there. Then when you’ve
dragged, or if the grapnel sticks, he can pull
the hook back again with the light line and start
afresh alongside the place where he made the last
cast. But it’s likely to be a slow business, as you
say.”</p>

<p>The Inspector agreed and set his constables to
work at once. Sir Clinton withdrew to a little
distance, sat down on a small hillock from which he
could oversee the dragging operations, and patiently
awaited the start of the search. His eyes, wandering
with apparent incuriosity over the group at the
water’s edge, noted with approval that Armadale was
wasting no time.</p>

<p>Having made his instructions clear, the Inspector
came over to where the Chief Constable was posted.</p>

<p>“Sit down, Inspector,” Sir Clinton invited. “This
may take all day, you know, and it’s as cheap sitting
as standing.”</p>

<p>When the Inspector had seated himself, the Chief
Constable turned to him with a question.</p>

<p>“You’ve seen to it that no one has gone up on to
the terrace?”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale nodded affirmatively.</p>

<p>“No one’s been up on top,” he explained, “I’d like
to go and have a look round myself; but since you
were so clear about it, I haven’t gone.”</p>

<p>“Don’t go,” Sir Clinton reiterated his order. “I’ve
a sound reason for letting no one up there.”</p>

<p>He glanced for a moment at the group of
constables.</p>

<p>“Another thing, Inspector,” he continued.
“There’s no secrecy about that matter. In fact, it
might be useful if you’d let it leak out to the public
that no one has been up above there and that no
one will be allowed to go until I give the word.
Spread it round, you understand?”</p>

<p>Slightly mystified, apparently, the Inspector
acquiesced.</p>

<p>“Do you see your way through the case, Sir
Clinton?” he demanded. “You’ve given me the facts,
but we’ll need a good deal more, it seems to me.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton pulled out his cigarette-case and
thoughtfully began to smoke before answering the
question. When he spoke again, his reply was an
indirect one.</p>

<p>“There’s an old jurist’s saying that I always keep
in mind,” he said. “It helps to clarify one’s ideas in
a case:</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p>Quis, quid, ubi, quibus auxiliis, cur, quomodo, quando?</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>That puts our whole business into a nutshell.” He
glanced at the Inspector’s face. “Your Latin’s as
feeble as my own, perhaps? There’s an English
equivalent:</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p class="i1">What was the crime, who did it, when was it done, and where,</p>
  <p class="i1">How done, and with what motive, who in the deed did share?</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>How many of these questions can you answer now,
offhand, Inspector? The rest of them will tell you
what you’ve still got to ferret out.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale pulled out a notebook and
pencil.</p>

<p>“Would you mind repeating it, Sir Clinton? I’d see
through it better if I had it down in black and white.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable repeated the doggerel and
Armadale jotted it down under his dictation.</p>

<p>“That seems fairly searching,” he admitted,
re-reading it as he spoke.</p>

<p>“Quite enough for present purposes. Now,
Inspector, how much do you really know? I mean, how
many answers can you give? There are only seven
questions in all. Take them one by one and let’s hear
your answers.”</p>

<p>“It’s a pretty stiff catechism,” said the Inspector,
looking again at his notebook. “I’ll have a try,
though, if you give me time to think over it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton smiled at the qualification.</p>

<p>“Think it over, then, Inspector,” he said. “I’ll just
go and set them to work with the dragging. They
seem to be ready to make a start.”</p>

<p>He rose and walked down to the group at the
edge of the pool.</p>

<p>“You know what’s wanted?” he asked. “Well, suppose
we make a start. Get the raft out to about ten
yards or so beyond the cave-mouth and begin by
flinging the grapnel in as near the cliff-edge as you
can. Then work gradually outwards. If it sticks, try
again very slightly off the line of the last cast.”</p>

<p>He watched one or two attempts which gave no
result and then turned back to the hillock again.</p>

<p>“Well, Inspector?” he demanded as he sat down
and turned his eyes on the group engaged with the
dragging operations. “What do you make of it?”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale looked up from his
notebook.</p>

<p>“That’s a sound little rhyme,” he admitted. “It
lets you see what you don’t know and what you do
know.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton suppressed a smile successfully.</p>

<p>“Or what you think you know, perhaps,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Well, if you like to put it that way, sir. But some
things I think one can be sure of.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s face showed nothing of his views on
this question.</p>

<p>“Let’s begin at the beginning,” he suggested.
“ ‘What was the crime?’ ”</p>

<p>“That’s clear enough,” the Inspector affirmed without
hesitation. “These three electrotypes have been
stolen. That’s the crime.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be engrossed in the dragging
which was going on methodically below them.</p>

<p>“You think so?” he said at length. “H’m! I’m not
so sure.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale corrected himself.</p>

<p>“I meant that I’d charge the man with stealing the
replicas. You couldn’t charge him with anything else,
since nothing else is missing. At least, that’s what
you told me. He wanted the real medallions, but he
didn’t pull that off.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused to be drawn. He resorted to
one of his indirect replies.</p>

<p>“ ‘What was the crime?’ ” he repeated. “Now, I’ll
put a case to you, Inspector. Suppose that you saw
two men in the distance and that you could make
out that one of them was struggling and the second
man was beating him on the head. What crime would
you call that? Assault and battery?”</p>

<p>“I suppose so,” Armadale admitted.</p>

<p>“But suppose, further, that when you reached
them, you found the victim dead of his injuries,
what would you call the crime then?”</p>

<p>“Murder, I suppose.”</p>

<p>“So your view of the crime would depend upon the
stage at which you witnessed it, eh? That’s just my
position in this Ravensthorpe affair. You’ve been
looking at it from yesterday’s standpoint, and you
call it a theft of three replicas. But I wonder what
you’ll call it when we know the whole of the facts.”</p>

<p>The Inspector declined to follow his chief to this
extent.</p>

<p>“All the evidence we’ve got, so far, points to theft,
sir. I’ve no fresh data that would let me put a new
name to it.”</p>

<p>“Then you regard it as a completed crime which
has partly failed in its object?”</p>

<p>The Inspector gave his acquiescence with a nod.</p>

<p>“You think it’s something else, Sir Clinton?” he
inquired.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable refused to be explicit.</p>

<p>“You’ve got all the evidence, Inspector. Do you
really think a gang would take the trouble to steal
replicas when they could just as easily have taken
the three originals—that’s the point. The replicas
have no intrinsic value beyond the gold in them,
and that can’t be worth more than twenty or thirty
pounds at the very outside. A mediocre haul for a
smart gang, isn’t it? Hardly Trade Union wages, I
should think.”</p>

<p>“It seems queer at first sight, sir,” he admitted,
“but I think I can account for that all right when you
come to the rest of your rhyme.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed his interest.</p>

<p>“Then let’s go on,” he suggested. “The next question
is: ‘Who did it?’ What’s your answer to that,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>“To my mind, there seems to be only one possible
thief.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton pricked up his ears.</p>

<p>“You mean it was a single-handed job? Who was
the man, then?”</p>

<p>“Foxton Polegate,” asserted the Inspector.</p>

<p>He watched Sir Clinton’s face narrowly as he
brought out the name, but the Chief Constable might
have been wearing a mask for all the change there
was in his features as he listened to the Inspector’s
suggestion. As if he felt that he had overstepped the
bounds of prudence, Armadale added hastily:</p>

<p>“I said ‘possible thief,’ sir. I don’t claim to be able
to bring it home to him yet.”</p>

<p>“But you think it might even be ‘probable’ instead
of only ‘possible,’ Inspector? Let’s hear the evidence,
please.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale turned over the leaves of his
notebook until he reached some entries which he had
previously made.</p>

<p>“First of all, sir, Polegate must have known the
value of these medallions—the originals, I mean.
Second, he learned that they would be on show last
night; and he knew where they’d be placed in the
museum. Third, it was after Polegate came by this
knowledge that the practical joke was planned.
Fourth, who suggested the sham burglary? Polegate.
Then fifth, who gave himself the job of actually
taking the medallions? Polegate again. Sixth, where
was Polegate immediately after the robbery? We’ve
only his own word for it that he was strolling about,
having a smoke. He might have been elsewhere,
easily enough. Seventh, he was dressed up as a
Harlequin when you saw him: but he might quite easily
have slipped on a white jacket and a pair of Pierrot’s
trousers over his Harlequin costume. He could
disguise himself as a Pierrot in a couple of ticks and
come out as a Harlequin again just as quick. So he
might quite well have been the man in white that
they were all busy chasing last night. Eighth, he
knows the ground thoroughly and could give strangers
the slip easily enough at the end of the chase.
And, ninth, he didn’t appear when you wanted him
last night. He only turned up when he’d had plenty
of time to get home again, even if he’d been the man
in white. That’s a set of nine points that need looking
into. <i>Prima facie</i>, there’s a case for suspicion, if
there’s no more. And there isn’t anything like so
strong a case against any one else, Sir Clinton.”</p>

<p>“Well, let’s take the rest of the first line,” said the
Chief Constable, without offering any criticism of the
Inspector’s statement of the case. “ ‘When was it
done, and where?’ ”</p>

<p>“At 11.45 p.m. and in the museum,” retorted
Armadale. “That’s beyond dispute. It’s the clearest
thing in the whole evidence.”</p>

<p>“I should be inclined to put it at 11.44 p.m. at the
latest, or perhaps 11.43 p.m.,” said Sir Clinton, with
an air of fastidiousness.</p>

<p>The Inspector looked at him suspiciously, evidently
feeling that he was being laughed at for his
display of accuracy.</p>

<p>“I go by Miss Rainhill’s evidence,” he declared.
“She was the only one who had her eye on her watch,
and she said she pulled out the switch at 11.45
precisely.”</p>

<p>“I go by the evidence of Polegate and young
Chacewater,” said Sir Clinton, with a faint parody
of the Inspector’s manner. “They were taken by surprise
when the light went out, although they expected
it to be extinguished at 11.45 p.m.”</p>

<p>“Oh, have it your own way, sir, if you lay any
stress on the point,” conceded the Inspector. “Make
it 11.44 or 11.45; it’s all the same, so far as I’m
concerned.”</p>

<p>Armadale seemed slightly ruffled by his chief’s
method of approaching the subject. Sir Clinton
turned to another side of the matter.</p>

<p>“I suppose you say the crime has been committed
in the museum?” he inquired.</p>

<p>The Inspector looked at him suspiciously.</p>

<p>“You’re trying to pull my leg, sir. Of course, it
was committed in the museum.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s tone became apologetic.</p>

<p>“I keep forgetting that we’re not talking about the
same thing, perhaps. Of course, the theft of the
replicas was committed in the museum. We’re quite in
agreement there.”</p>

<p>He threw away his cigarette, selected a fresh one,
and lighted it before continuing.</p>

<p>“And on that basis, I suppose there’s no mystery
about the next query in the rhyme: ‘How done?’ ”</p>

<p>“None whatever, in my mind,” the Inspector
affirmed. “Polegate could take what he wanted, once
the light was out.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton did not dispute this point.</p>

<p>“Of course,” he said. “And now for the next
query: ‘With what motive?’ Where do you stand in
that matter, Inspector?”</p>

<p>But here Armadale evidently felt himself on sure
ground.</p>

<p>“Polegate’s a rackety young fool, sir. This is where
local knowledge comes in. He’s got no common
sense—always playing practical jokes. He’s been
steadily muddling away the money his father left
him. I shouldn’t be surprised if he’s hard up. That’s
the motive.”</p>

<p>“And you think he’d steal from his oldest
friends?”</p>

<p>“Every man has his price,” retorted the Inspector,
bluntly. “Put on the screw hard enough in the way of
temptation, and any man’ll fall for it.”</p>

<p>“Rather a hard saying that, Inspector; and
perhaps a trifle too sweeping.” Sir Clinton turned
on Armadale suddenly. “What would be <em>your</em>
price, now, if I asked you to hush up this case
against young Polegate? Put a figure on it, will
you?”</p>

<p>Armadale flushed angrily at the suggestion; then,
seeing that he had been trapped, he laughed
awkwardly.</p>

<p>“Nobody knows even their own price till it’s put
on the table, Sir Clinton,” he countered, with a
certain acuteness.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable turned away from the
subject.</p>

<p>“You’re depending on there being a fair chance of
Polegate getting away with the medallions without
being suspected. But when young Chacewater and
Miss Rainhill were in the scheme as well as Polegate,
suspicion was sure to light on him when the medallions
vanished. The other two were certain to tell
what they knew about the business.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale glanced once more at his notebook
in order to refresh his memory of the rhyme.</p>

<p>“That really comes under the final head: ‘Who in
the deed did share?’ ” he pointed out.</p>

<p>“Pass along to the next caravan, then, if you
wish,” Sir Clinton suggested. “What animals have
you in the final cage?”</p>

<p>The Inspector seemed to deprecate his flippancy.</p>

<p>“It’s been very cleverly done,” he said, seriously.
“You objected that suspicion was bound to fall on
young Polegate; and so it would have done, if he
hadn’t covered his tracks so neatly. He’s set every
one on the hunt for a gang at work, or at least for an
outside criminal. Now I believe it was a one-man
show from the start, worked from the inside.
Polegate planned the practical joke—that gave him his
chance. Then he forced himself forward as the fellow
who was to do the actual stealing—and that let him
get his hands on the medallions while young
Chacewater held the keeper up for him. Without the
hold-up of the keeper, the thing was a wash-out. The
joke helped young Polegate to enlist innocent
assistance.”</p>

<p>“But still suspicion would attach to him,” Sir
Clinton objected.</p>

<p>“Yes, except for a false trail,” the Inspector
agreed. “But he laid a false trail. Instead of waiting
for the switch to be pulled out, he fired his shot from
the bay, extinguished the light and then rushed out
of the bay and went for the medallions.”</p>

<p>“Well?” said Sir Clinton in an encouraging tone.</p>

<p>“When he’d smashed the glass of the case, he took
out the whole six medallions, and not merely three
of them as he told you he’d done.”</p>

<p>“And then?”</p>

<p>“He pocketed the replicas and stuck the real things
under the case with plasticine. Then he continued the
false trail by bolting out of the house. He was the
man in white. When he got clear of the people who
were chasing him, he came back to the house again,
ready to play his part as an innocent practical joker.
And he had his tale ready, of how some one was beside
him at the case, wearing a Pierrot costume. That
stamped the notion of an outside gang on everybody’s
mind. Both sets of medallions had gone. He—the
innocent practical joker—could have produced
the replicas from his pocket and sworn they were
all that the gang had left in the case by the time he
got to it.”</p>

<p>“And . . . ?”</p>

<p>“And then, a few days later, he’d have managed
to get into the museum on some excuse—he’s a
friend of the family—and he’d have had no difficulty
in taking the real medallions from under the case
where he’d left them. He’d have to take the chance
that they’d been overlooked. The false trail would
help in that. He’d hardly expect a close search of the
museum after the man in white had got clear away.
And by running the business on these lines, he’d
avoid any chance of being caught with the stuff
actually in his pocket at any time.”</p>

<p>“But in that case, why did he hand over the real
things to me like a lamb as soon as I challenged
him?”</p>

<p>The Inspector was ready for this.</p>

<p>“Because as soon as he came into the museum last
night, he found that you apparently knew
everything—or a good deal more than he’d counted on.
Anyhow, he didn’t know how much you knew; and he
felt he’d got into a tight corner. He just let the whole
thing slide and made up his mind to get out before
things got too hot. So he pretended that so far as he
was concerned, the practical joke was the thing; and
he gave up the real medallions and kept the replicas
in his pocket.”</p>

<p>“Why? He might as well have given up the lot.”</p>

<p>“No,” the Inspector contradicted. “He’d got to
keep the false trail going, for otherwise there would
have been awkward questions as to why he diverged
from the prearranged programme. I mean the shooting
out of the light, the lies about the man in white,
and so forth. So he stuck to the replicas and made
out that there was an outsider mixed up in the
affair. But thanks to the practical joke, the outsider
had missed the real stuff; and Polegate was really
the saviour of the Leonardo set.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be pondering over Armadale’s
version of the affair. At last he gave his own
view.</p>

<p>“A jury wouldn’t look at that evidence,” he
pointed out.</p>

<p>“I don’t suppose they would,” Armadale admitted.
“But there may be more to come yet.”</p>

<p>“I expect so,” Sir Clinton agreed.</p>

<p>He rose as he spoke, and, followed by the
Inspector, went down to the edge of the lakelet.</p>

<p>“No luck yet?” he inquired.</p>

<p>“None, sir. It’s a very difficult bottom to work a
grapnel over. It sticks three times out of four.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton watched the line of the drag which they
were making.</p>

<p>“It’ll take a while to cover the ground at this rate,”
he commented, noting the smallness of the area they
had searched up to that moment.</p>

<p>As he turned away from the water-side, he noticed
Cecil Chacewater approaching round the edge of the
lakelet, and leaving the Inspector to superintend the
dragging, he walked over to meet the newcomer. As
he came near, he could see that Cecil’s face was
sullen and downcast.</p>

<p>“ ’Morning, Sir Clinton. I heard you were here,
so I came across to say good-bye before I clear
out.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton could hardly pretend astonishment in
view of what he knew about the state of affairs at
Ravensthorpe; but he did not conceal his regret at
the news.</p>

<p>“There was a row-royal between Maurice and me
this morning,” Cecil explained, gloomily. “Of course
this medallion business gave him his chance, and he
jumped in with both feet, you know. He abused me
like a fish-wife and finally gave me permission to do
anything except stay at Ravensthorpe after to-night.
So I’m off.”</p>

<p>“I wish you hadn’t got mixed up with that silly
practical joke,” Sir Clinton said in some concern. “I
can’t forgive that young blighter for luring you into
it.”</p>

<p>Cecil’s resentment against his brother was evidently
too deep to let him look on the matter from
this point of view.</p>

<p>“If it hadn’t been that, it would have been something
else. Any excuse would have served his turn,
you know. He’d have flung me out sooner or later—probably
sooner. I’ve felt for long enough that he was
itching to clear me off the premises. Foxy’s little
show only precipitated things. The root of the trouble
was there long before.”</p>

<p>“Well, it’s a sad business.” Sir Clinton saw that it
was useless to dwell on the subject. “You’re going
up to town? Any address you can give me?”</p>

<p>“I’ll probably put up with a man for a day or two.
He’s been inviting me to his place once or twice
lately, but I’ve never been able to fit it in; so I may
as well take him at his word now. I’ve got to look
round for something to do, you know.”</p>

<p>“If you want some one to speak for you, Cecil,
refer them to me when you apply for anything. And,
by the way, if you happen to run short, you know my
address. A letter will always find me.”</p>

<p>Cecil thanked him rather awkwardly.</p>

<p>“I hope it won’t come to that,” he wound up.
“Something may turn up sooner than one hopes.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton thought it well to change the subject
again.</p>

<p>“By the way, Cecil,” he asked, “do you know
anything about this man Foss? What sort of person is
he?”</p>

<p>It seemed an unfortunate topic. Cecil’s manner
was anything but gracious as he replied:</p>

<p>“Foss? Oh, you know what sort of a fellow he is
already. A damned eavesdropper on his hosts and a
beggar with a tongue hinged in the middle so that he
can talk with both ends at once. I’d like to wring his
neck for him! What do they call the breed that runs
off and splits to the police? Copper’s narks, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“It wasn’t exactly that side of him that I wanted
to hear about, Cecil. I’m quite fully acquainted with
his informative temperament already. What I want
to know is the sort of man he is socially and so
forth.”</p>

<p>Cecil curbed his vexation with an effort.</p>

<p>“Oh, he seems to have decent enough manners—a
bit Yankee, perhaps, in some things. He must do
well enough out of this agent business of his, acting
for Kessock and the like, you know. He arrived here
with a big car, a chauffeur, and a man. Except for
his infernal tale-bearing, I can’t say he’s anything
out of the ordinary.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, apparently feeling that he had struck
the wrong vein in the conversational strata, contented
himself with a nod of comprehension and let Cecil
choose his own subject for the next stage in their talk.
He was somewhat surprised when it came.</p>

<p>“Have you heard the latest from the village?”
Cecil demanded.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“I’ve had very little time to collect local gossip this
morning, Cecil. I’ve been busy getting things started
for this bit of work in the lake, you see.”</p>

<p>“If you’d been down in Hincheldene village you
could hardly have missed it. I went down this morning
to get some tobacco and I found the whole place
buzzing with it. That was before I’d seen Maurice,
luckily.”</p>

<p>“Suppose you tell me what it is,” Sir Clinton
suggested, drily.</p>

<p>“Do you remember my telling you about the family
spectre, the White Man?” Cecil asked. “Well, it
seems that the village drunkard, old Groby, was
taking a short cut through our woods last night—or
rather this morning, for he’s a bit of a late
going-to-rooster—and he got the shock of his life in one of
the glades. He swears he saw the White Man stealing
about from tree to tree. By his way of it, he was
near enough to see the thing clearly—all white, even
the face. What a lark!”</p>

<p>“You certainly seem to take your family spectre
a bit lightly, Cecil. What’s the cream of the
jest?”</p>

<p>Cecil’s face took on a vindictive expression.</p>

<p>“Oh, it gave me a chance of getting home on
Maurice, after he’d given me the key of the street. I
told him all about it and I rubbed in the old story.
You know what I mean? The White Man never appears
except when the head of the family’s on his
last legs. Maurice didn’t like it a bit. He looked a
bit squeamish over it; and I came away leaving that
sticking in his gills.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton hardly concealed his distaste for this
kind of thing.</p>

<p>“You flatter yourself, I expect. Maurice is hardly
likely to waste any thought over superstitions of that
sort.”</p>

<p>Cecil’s expression still showed a tinge of malice.</p>

<p>“You’d wonder,” he said. “It’s all very well for
you to sneer at these affairs; but it looks a bit
different when you yourself happen to be the object of
them, I guess. It’s easy to say ‘Superstition’ in a
high-minded way; but if there’s one per cent. chance that
the superstition’s going to hit you personally, then,
you know, it rankles a bit. Anything to give pain is
my motto where Maurice is concerned.”</p>

<p>Quite oblivious of Sir Clinton’s rather disgusted
expression, he laughed softly to himself for a moment
or two.</p>

<p>“And the funniest thing in the whole affair,” he
went on, “is that I know all about this White Man.
Can’t you guess what it was?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“Why, don’t you see?” Cecil demanded, still
laughing. “What old Groby came across must obviously
have been Maurice himself in his white Pierrot
dress, coming back from the burglar-hunt! That’s
what makes it so damned funny. Fancy Maurice getting
the creeps on account of himself! It’s as good a
joke as I’ve heard for a while.”</p>

<p>He laughed harshly.</p>

<p>“You don’t seem to see it. Well, well. Perhaps
you’re right. And now I must be getting back to the
house. I’ve a lot of stuff to collect before I go off.”</p>

<p>He shook hands with Sir Clinton and moved off
towards Ravensthorpe. The Chief Constable gazed
after him for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“That young man’s in a most unpleasant frame of
mind,” he commented to himself. “He’s obviously
quite off his normal balance when he’d make a point
of that kind of thing. I can’t say I take much stock
in brotherly love; but this is really overdoing the
business. Both of them seem to have taken leave of
ordinary feelings. It’s just as well they’re parting,
perhaps.”</p>

<p>Rather moodily he retraced his steps to where the
Inspector was directing the operations by the bank
of the lakelet; but by the time he reached the group
his face had taken on its normal expression.</p>

<p>“Fishing still poor?” he demanded, as he came up.</p>

<p>“Nothing so far, sir,” the Inspector confessed.
“These rocks are the very deuce to work amongst.
I’ve been running the grapnel over the same track
two or three times, just in case we miss the thing the
first shot. We’ve had no luck at all—unless you
count this as a valuable find: a bit of limestone or
something like that.”</p>

<p>He kicked a shapeless mass of white stone as he
spoke. Sir Clinton stooped over it: a dripping mass
about the size of a man’s fist. The Inspector watched
him as he examined it; but Sir Clinton’s face
suggested neither interest nor satisfaction.</p>

<p>“Might be a bit of marble that got swept over the
top when they were putting up the balustrade in the
old days,” the Inspector hazarded.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked at it again and shook his head.</p>

<p>“I doubt it,” he said. “However, since it’s the only
thing you’ve fished up, you’d better keep it,
Inspector. One never knows what may be useful. I might
make a paper-weight out of it as a souvenir.”</p>

<p>The Inspector failed to see the point of the joke,
but he laughed as politely as he could.</p>

<p>“Very well, Sir Clinton, I’ll see that it’s put aside.”</p>

<p>He glanced over the Chief Constable’s shoulder.</p>

<p>“Here’s Mr. Clifton coming, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned round to find that Michael
Clifton had approached while he was engaged with
the dragging operations. Leaving the group by the
bank, he walked slowly to meet the advancing figure.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Mr. Clifton. Come up to see how
we’re getting on, I suppose. There’s nothing to
report, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p>“Drawn blank?” Michael inquired, needlessly.
“There ought to be something there, all the same.”</p>

<p>“It may have been only a stone,” Sir Clinton
pointed out. “You heard a splash; that’s all we have
to go on. And a stone would make that as well as
anything else.”</p>

<p>“That’s true,” Michael admitted. “None of us saw
the thing hit the water, so we’ve no notion what it
was like. It might have been a stone for all we can
tell. But why should the fellow pitch a brick into the
water? That’s what puzzles me.”</p>

<p>Before Sir Clinton could reply, a shout came from
the bank, and the Inspector waved to them to come
down.</p>

<p>“We’ve got something, sir,” he called, as they drew
nearer.</p>

<p>Followed by Michael, Sir Clinton hurried up to the
group at the water’s edge. The Inspector was kneeling
down, carefully disentangling the grapnel from
something white. At last he rose and held out his
capture. Michael gave an exclamation.</p>

<p>“A white jacket!”</p>

<p>A little further shaking of the material showed
that it was a complete white Pierrot costume, except
for the cap and shoes. The Inspector spread it out
on the grass to dry, after holding the jacket outspread
in the air so that they could gauge its size by
comparison with his own body.</p>

<p>“That’s what I’ve been hoping to get hold of,
Inspector,” Sir Clinton said. “I doubt if you’ll find
much more in the pool. But perhaps you’d better go
on dragging for a while yet. Something else might
turn up.”</p>

<p>He examined the costume carefully; but it was
quite evident that there were no identifying marks on
it. During the inspection, Michael showed signs of
impatience; and as soon as he could he
unostentatiously drew Sir Clinton away from the group.</p>

<p>“Come up here, Mr. Clifton,” the Chief Constable
suggested, as he turned towards the hillock he had
chosen earlier in the morning. “We can keep an eye
on things from this place.”</p>

<p>He sat down and Michael, after a glance to see
that they were out of earshot of the dragging party,
followed his example.</p>

<p>“What do you make of that?” he demanded
eagerly.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to have little desire to discuss
the matter.</p>

<p>“Let’s be quite clear on one point before we
begin,” he reminded Michael. “I’m a Chief Constable,
not a broadcasting station. My business is to collect
information, not to throw it abroad before the proper
time comes. You understand?”</p>

<p>Rather dashed, Michael admitted the justice of
this.</p>

<p>“I’m a public servant, Mr. Clifton,” Sir Clinton
pointed out, his manner taking the edge off the
directness of his remarks, “and I get my information
officially. Obviously it wouldn’t be playing the game
if I scattered that information around before the
public service has had the use of it.”</p>

<p>“I see that well enough,” Michael protested. “All
I asked was what your own views are.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton smiled and there was a touch of
mischief in his eye as he replied.</p>

<p>“Seeing that my conclusions are based on the
evidence—at least I like to think so, you
know—they’re obviously part and parcel of my official
knowledge. Hence I don’t divulge them till the right
moment comes.”</p>

<p>He paused to let this sink in, then added lightly:</p>

<p>“That’s a most useful principle, I find. One often
makes mistakes, and of course one never divulges
them either, until the right time comes. It’s curious,
but I’ve never been able yet to satisfy myself that
the right time has come in any case of the sort.”</p>

<p>Michael smiled in his turn; and Sir Clinton went
on:</p>

<p>“But there’s no reason why you shouldn’t draw
your own conclusions and give me the benefit of
them. I’m not too proud to be helped, you know.”</p>

<p>For a moment Michael kept silence, as if considering
what his next move should be. Sir Clinton had
given him what might have looked like a snub; but
Michael had acuteness enough to tell him that the
matter was one of principle with the Chief Constable
and not merely a pretext devised on the spur
of the moment to suppress inconvenient curiosity.</p>

<p>“It just occurred to me,” he confessed, “that
there’s a possible explanation of that thing they’ve
fished up. Do you remember that I found Maurice in
the Fairy House up above there”—he indicated the
cliff-top with a gesture—“and when I left him there
he was still wearing a white costume like this one?”</p>

<p>“So you told us last night,” Sir Clinton confirmed.</p>

<p>“Now when Maurice turned up in the museum
later on,” Michael continued, “he was wearing
ordinary evening clothes. He’d got rid of the Pierrot
dress in the meantime.”</p>

<p>“That’s true,” Sir Clinton agreed.</p>

<p>“Isn’t it possible,” Michael went on, “that after I
left him, Maurice got over his troubles, whatever
they were, and pitched his disguise over the edge
here. This may quite well be it.”</p>

<p>“Rather a rum proceeding, surely,” was Sir Clinton’s
comment. “Can you suggest any earthly reason
why he should do a thing like that?”</p>

<p>“I can’t,” Michael admitted, frankly. “But the
whole affair last night seemed to have neither rhyme
nor reason in it; and after swallowing the escape of
that beggar we were after, I’m almost prepared for
anything in this neighbourhood. I just put the matter
before you. I can’t fake up any likely explanation
to account for it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be reflecting before he spoke
again.</p>

<p>“To tell you the truth, I was rather disappointed
with the result of that drag. Quite obviously—this
isn’t official information, for you can see it with your
own eyes—quite obviously that Pierrot costume must
have been wrapped round some weight or other, or it
wouldn’t have sunk to the bottom. And in the dragging
the weight fell out. I could make a guess at what
the weight was; but I wish we’d fished it up. It
doesn’t matter much, really; but one likes to get
everything one can.”</p>

<p>Michael, unable to guess what lay behind this,
kept silent in the hope that there was more to come;
but the Chief Constable swung off to a fresh subject.</p>

<p>“Did you take a careful note of the costumes of
the gang who helped you in the attempt to round the
beggar up? Could you make a list of them if it
became necessary?”</p>

<p>Michael considered for the best part of a minute
before answering.</p>

<p>“Some of them I could remember easily enough;
but not all, I’m sure. It was a bit confused, you
know; and some of the crew turned up pretty late,
when all my attention was focused on the final
round-up. I really couldn’t guarantee to give you an
accurate list.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s nod indicated approval.</p>

<p>“That’s what I like,” he said. “I’d rather have a
definite No than a faked-up list that might mean
nothing at all. But there’s one point that’s really
important. Did you notice, among your assistants,
anybody in white like the man you were hunting?”</p>

<p>Michael apparently had no need to pause before
replying.</p>

<p>“No,” he said definitely, “I saw nobody of that
sort. I suppose you mean Maurice. He certainly
wasn’t in the cordon when it went into the spinney
or when it came out on the terrace. I’m absolutely
sure of my ground there. But of course he may have
been one of the late-comers. Almost as soon as we got
to the terrace we had to sprint off down to the lake
side, you see; and he might quite well have been a
bit slow in the chase and have reached the top only
after we’d come down here.”</p>

<p>“That’s all I wanted to know,” said Sir Clinton,
with a finality which prevented any angling for
further information.</p>

<p>Michael evidently had no desire to outstay his
welcome, for in a few minutes he rose to his feet.</p>

<p>“I think I’ll go over to Ravensthorpe now,” he
said. “I suppose you’re not going to leave here for a
while?”</p>

<p>The words recalled to Sir Clinton the fact that he
had not yet congratulated Michael on his
engagement. He hastened to repair the oversight.</p>

<p>“I was looking for you at the dance last night,” he
explained, after Michael had thanked him, “but before
I got hold of you, this burglary business cropped
up, and I’ve had hardly a minute to spare since then.
By the way, if you’re going over to the house, you
might tell Joan that I shall probably have to pay
them a visit shortly, but I’ll ring up and let them
know when I’m coming.”</p>

<p>Michael nodded and turned away, skirting the
lakelet on his way to Ravensthorpe. Sir Clinton
sauntered over to the waterside and watched the
dragging operations which were still going on. When
he made his way back to the hillock again, Inspector
Armadale followed him.</p>

<p>“There’s another point that occurred to me, sir,”
he explained. “I think you told me that Polegate was
wearing a Harlequin’s costume last night?”</p>

<p>“That’s correct,” Sir Clinton confirmed. “And
what then?”</p>

<p>“One difficulty I’ve had,” the Inspector went on,
“was to explain how the fellow in white got away
from them all so neatly. I think I see now how it was
done.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made no effort to conceal his interest.</p>

<p>“Yes, Inspector?”</p>

<p>Armadale obviously took this as complimentary.</p>

<p>“This is how I figure it out, sir. Polegate had a
white jacket and Pierrot trousers on over his Harlequin
costume. At the end of the chase he bolted into
the spinney and out on to the terrace above here.
That gave him a breathing-space. It took Mr. Clifton
a minute or two to organize his cordon; and during
that time the thief was hidden from them by the
trees.”</p>

<p>“That’s obviously true,” Sir Clinton admitted. “If
he did change his costume, it must have been at that
moment.”</p>

<p>“I expect he had a weight of some sort ready on
the terrace,” the Inspector continued. “When
he’d stripped off his jacket and trousers, he wrapped
them round the weight and pitched them over into
the pool. That would make the splash they all
heard.”</p>

<p>“And after that?”</p>

<p>The Inspector was evidently delighted with his
idea.</p>

<p>“That leaves us with Polegate in Harlequin dress
on the terrace, with a minute or two to spare before
the cordon was ready to move forward into the
spinney.”</p>

<p>“Admitted.”</p>

<p>“Do you remember the camouflaged ships in the
War, Sir Clinton?”</p>

<p>“I sailed in one, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

<p>“Well, you know what they were like: all sorts
of cock-eyed streaks and colours mixed up in a regular
tangle to destroy their real outlines. And what’s
a Harlequin’s costume? Isn’t it the very same
thing?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton confirmed this with an historical
allusion.</p>

<p>“You’re quite correct, Inspector. As a matter of
fact, the Harlequin’s dress was originally designed
to represent Invisibility. Nobody except Columbine
was supposed to be able to see Harlequin, you
know.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale hurried to his conclusion.</p>

<p>“What was to hinder Polegate, during that
breathing-space, getting back into the spinney? It was a
moonlight night. You know what the spinney would
be like under a full moon: it would be all dappled
with spots of moonlight coming through the trees.
And against a setting of that sort the Harlequin
costume would be next door to invisible. He’d only
have to stand still in some chequered spot and no
one would detect him. They were all hunting for a
man dressed in white. None of them noticed him.
None of them saw him, I guess.”</p>

<p>Much to the Inspector’s surprise, Sir Clinton shook
his head.</p>

<p>“I’d be prepared to bet pretty heavily that
someone saw him,” he affirmed.</p>

<p>The Inspector looked at his Chief for a moment,
obviously taken aback.</p>

<p>“You think some one saw him?”</p>

<p>Then a flood of light from a fresh angle in his mind
seemed to illuminate the question.</p>

<p>“You mean he had a confederate in the cordon?
Some one who let him through and kept it dark? I
never thought of that! You had me beaten there,
Sir Clinton. And of course, now I see it, that’s the
simplest solution of the whole affair. If we can get a
list of the people in the cordon, we’ll be able to pick
out the confederate before long.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton damped his enthusiasm slightly.</p>

<p>“It won’t be so easy to get that list, Inspector.
Remember the confusion of the whole business: the
hurry, the effect of moonlight, the masks, the
costumes, and all the rest of it. You may be able to put
a list together; but you’ll have some difficulty
yourself in believing that you’ve tracked down every
possible person who was in the line. And if you miss
one . . .”</p>

<p>“He may be the man, you mean? Well, there’s
no harm in trying. I’ll turn a sergeant on to gather
all the news he can get.”</p>

<p>“It’ll be a good test of his capacity, then, even if
nothing else comes out of it,” Sir Clinton certified,
carelessly.</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch08">

<h2>CHAPTER VIII. <br/> The Murder in the Museum</h2>

<p>Sir Clinton cut short the shrill ringing of his desk
telephone by picking up the receiver.</p>

<p>“The Chief Constable speaking,” he informed his
inquirer.</p>

<p>Michael Clifton’s voice sounded over the wire.</p>

<p>“Can you come up to Ravensthorpe at once, Sir
Clinton, or send Inspector Armadale? There’s a bad
business here. Mr. Foss has been murdered. I’ve
taken care that no one has got off the premises; and
I’ve seen to it that his body has been left as it was
found.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced at his wrist-watch.</p>

<p>“I’ll drive across as soon as possible. See that
things are left undisturbed, please. And collect all
the people who can give any evidence, so that we
needn’t waste time hunting for them. Good-bye.”</p>

<p>He shifted the switch of his telephone and spoke
again.</p>

<p>“Is Inspector Armadale here just now?” he asked
the constable who answered his call. “Tell him I
wish to see him in my room immediately.”</p>

<p>While waiting for Armadale, Sir Clinton had a few
moments in which to consider the information he had
just received.</p>

<p>“This looks like Part II of the Ravensthorpe
affair,” he reflected. “Foss’s only connection with
Ravensthorpe was the business of these Medusa
Medallions. First one has the theft of the replicas; now
comes the murder of this American agent. It’s highly
improbable that two things like that could be
completely independent.”</p>

<p>His cogitation was interrupted by the entry of
Armadale, and in a few words Sir Clinton gave him
the fresh information which had come to hand.</p>

<p>“We’ll go up there at once in my car, Inspector.
Get the necessary things together, please. Don’t
forget the big camera. We may need it. And the
constable who does photography for us had better come
along also.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale wasted no time. In a very few
minutes they were on the road. As he drove, Sir
Clinton was silent; and Armadale’s attempt to extract
further information from him was a complete failure.</p>

<p>“You know as much as I do, Inspector,” the Chief
Constable pointed out. “Let’s keep clear of any
preconceived ideas until we see how the land lies up
yonder.”</p>

<p>When they reached Ravensthorpe, they found
Michael Clifton waiting for them at the door.</p>

<p>“There are only two people who seem to know anything
definite about things,” he replied to the Chief
Constable’s first inquiry. “Joan’s one of them, but
she really knows nothing to speak of. The other
witness is Foss’s man—Marden’s his name. Will you
have a look at the body first of all, and then see Joan
and this fellow?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded his acquiescence and the party
followed Michael to the museum. Mold, the keeper,
was again on guard at the door of the room, and Sir
Clinton made a gesture of recognition as he passed
in, followed by Armadale.</p>

<p>A cursory glance showed Foss’s body lying in one
of the bays formed by the show-cases round the wall.
The Inspector went forward, knelt down, and held a
pocket-mirror to the dead man’s lips.</p>

<p>“Quite dead, sir,” he reported after a short time.</p>

<p>“The police surgeon will be here shortly,” Sir
Clinton intimated. “If he’s dead, we can postpone the
examination of the body for a short time. Everything’s
to be left as it is until we come back. Turn the
constable on to photograph the body’s position in
case we need it, though I don’t think we shall. Now
where’s Miss Chacewater? We’d better get her version
of the affair first. Then we can question the
valet.”</p>

<p>Without being acutely sensitive to atmosphere,
Michael Clifton could not help noticing a fresh
characteristic which had come into the Chief Constable’s
manner. This was not the Sir Clinton with whom he
was acquainted: the old friend of the Chacewater
family, with his faintly whimsical outlook on things.
Instead, Michael was now confronted by the head of
the police in the district, engaged in a piece of official
work and carrying it through in a methodical fashion,
as though nothing mattered but the end in view.</p>

<p>Followed by the two officials, Michael led the way
to the room where Joan was waiting. The Chief
Constable wasted no time in unnecessary talk. In fact,
he plunged straight into business in a manner which
suggested more than a touch of callousness. Only
later on did Michael realize that in this, perhaps, Sir
Clinton displayed more tact than was apparent at the
moment. By his manner, he suggested that a murder
was merely an event like any other—rather
uncommon, perhaps, but not a thing which called for
any particular excitement; and this almost indifferent
attitude tended to relax Joan’s overstrained nerves.</p>

<p>“You didn’t see the crime actually committed, of
course?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“Shall I begin at the beginning?” she asked.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, by a gesture, invited her to sit down.
He took a chair himself and pulled out a notebook.
Inspector Armadale copied him in this. Michael
remained standing near Joan’s chair, as though to lend
her his moral support.</p>

<p>After thinking for a moment or two, Joan began
her story.</p>

<p>“Some time after lunch, I was sitting on the terrace
with Mr. Foss. I forget what we were talking
about—nothing of any importance. Soon after that, Maurice
came out of the house and sat down. I was surprised
to see him, for he’d arranged to play golf this
afternoon. But he’d sprained his right wrist badly
after lunch, it seems, and had ’phoned to put off his
match. He sat nursing his wrist, and we began to
speak of one thing and another. Then, I remember,
Mr. Foss somehow turned the talk on to some of the
things we have. It was mostly about Japanese things
that they spoke; and Mr. Foss seemed chiefly
interested in some of the weapons my father had
collected. I remember they talked about a Sukesada
sword we have and about the Muramasa short sword.
Mr. Foss said that he would like to see them some
time. He thought that Mr. Kessock would be
interested to hear about them.”</p>

<p>She broke off and seemed to be trying to remember
the transitions of the conversation. Sir Clinton waited
patiently; but at last she evidently found herself unable
to recall any details of the next stage in the talk.</p>

<p>“I can’t remember how it came up. It was just
general talk about things in our collection and things
Mr. Foss had seen elsewhere, but finally they got on
to the Medusa Medallions somehow. Mr. Foss was
telling Maurice how tantalizing it was to buy these
things and pass them on to collectors when he’d like
to keep them for himself if only he could afford it.
Then it came out that he always took a rubbing of
all the coins and medals he came across. I remember
he made some little joke about his ‘poor man’s
collection’ or something like that. I forget exactly how
it came about, but either he asked Maurice to let
him have another look at the Leonardo medallions or
Maurice volunteered to let him take rubbings there
and then. I can’t recall the exact way in which the
suggestion was made. I wasn’t paying much
attention at the time.”</p>

<p>She looked up to see if Sir Clinton showed any
sign of annoyance at incomplete information; but his
face betrayed neither dissatisfaction nor approval.
Inspector Armadale, though following the evidence
keenly and making frequent notes, seemed to think
that very little of her information was to the point.</p>

<p>“Then,” Joan went on, “I remember Mr. Foss getting
up from his chair and saying: ‘If you’ll wait a
moment, I’ll get the things.’ And he went away and
left Maurice and me together. I said: ‘What’s he
gone for?’ And Maurice said: ‘Some paper to take
rubbings of the medallions and some stuff he uses
for that, dubbin or something.’ In a few minutes,
Mr. Foss came back again with some sheets of paper
and some black stuff in his hand. I was interested in
seeing how he did his rubbing or whatever you call
it, so I went with them to the museum.”</p>

<p>“And then?” Sir Clinton prompted. As they were
evidently coming near the moment of the murder in
Joan’s narrative, it was clear that he wished to leave
her no time to think of the crime itself.</p>

<p>“We went into the museum. Since that night of the
masked ball, Maurice has removed most of the
smaller articles of value from the cases and put them
into the safe; so in order to get the medallions he had
to open the safe. It’s a combination lock, you know;
and as I knew Maurice wouldn’t like us to be at his
elbow while he was setting the combination, I took
Mr. Foss under my wing and led him over to where
the Sukesada sword is hung on the wall. We looked
at it for a few moments. I remember taking it out of
its sheath to show the blade to Mr. Foss. Then I
heard Maurice slamming the door of the safe; and
when we went into the bay where it is, Maurice was
there with the Leonardo medallions in his hand.”</p>

<p>“One moment,” Sir Clinton interrupted. “You said
it was a combination lock on the safe. Do you
happen to know the combination?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“Maurice is the only one who knows that. He
never told it to any of us.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton invited her to continue.</p>

<p>“Maurice handed Mr. Foss one of the medallions
and Mr. Foss took it over to the big central
case—the one with the flat top. Then he began to take
a rubbing of the medallion with his paper and black
stuff. He didn’t seem quite satisfied with his first
attempt, so he had a second try at it. As we were
watching him, he seemed to prick up his ears, and
then he said: ‘There’s some one calling for you, Miss
Chacewater.’ I couldn’t hear anything myself; but he
explained that the voice was pretty far off. He had
extra good hearing, I remember he said. He seemed
very positive about it, so I went off to see what it
was all about.”</p>

<p>“Was that the last time you saw him?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Joan, but she had obviously more to
tell.</p>

<p>“And then?”</p>

<p>“As I was going away from the museum door, I
met Mr. Foss’s man, Marden. He had a small brown-paper
parcel in his hand. He stopped me and asked
me if I knew where Mr. Foss was. Something about
the parcel, I gathered, though I didn’t stop to listen
to him. I told him Mr. Foss was in the museum; and
I went on to see if I could find who was calling. I
searched about and came across Mr. Clifton; but I
didn’t hear any one calling my name. Mr. Foss must
have been mistaken.”</p>

<p>“And then?”</p>

<p>Michael Clifton evidently thought it unnecessary
that Joan should bear the whole burden of giving
evidence. At this point he broke in.</p>

<p>“Miss Chacewater and I were together in the
winter-garden when I heard a shout of ‘Murder!’ I
didn’t recognize the voice at the time. I left Miss
Chacewater where she was and made my way as
quick as I could towards the voice. It came from the
museum, so I hurried there. I found Foss on the
floor with a dagger of some sort in his chest. He was
gone, so far as I could see, before I came on the
scene at all. The man Marden was in the room,
tying up his hand. It was bleeding badly and he said
he’d cut it on the glass of a case. I kept him under
my eye till I could get a couple of keepers; and then
I rang you up at the station.”</p>

<p>“What had become of Mr. Chacewater?” Sir Clinton
asked, without showing that he attached more
than a casual interest to the question.</p>

<p>“That’s the puzzle,” Michael admitted. “I didn’t
see him anywhere in the museum at the moment and
I’ve been hunting for him everywhere since then:
but he’s not turned up. He may have gone out into
the grounds, of course, and left Foss alone in the
museum; and possibly he had got out of earshot before
the cry of ‘Murder!’ was raised by the valet. I don’t
know.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton saw that the Inspector wished to ask a
question, but he silenced him by a glance.</p>

<p>“One more point, and we’re done, I think,” he
said, turning to Joan. “Can you give me a rough
idea of the time when the cry of ‘Murder!’ was
raised? I mean, how long was it after you had left
the museum yourself?”</p>

<p>Joan thought for a few seconds.</p>

<p>“It took me three or four minutes before I came
across Mr. Clifton, and we were together—how long
would you say, Michael?—before we heard the
shout?”</p>

<p>“Not more than five minutes,” Michael suggested.</p>

<p>“That’s about it,” Joan confirmed. “That would
make it about eight or nine minutes, roughly, between
the time I left the museum and the time we heard the
shout.”</p>

<p>“About that,” Michael agreed.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton rose and closed his notebook.</p>

<p>“That’s all you have to tell us? Everything that
bears on the matter, so far as you know?”</p>

<p>Joan paused for a moment or two before replying.</p>

<p>“That’s all that I can remember,” she said at last,
after an evident effort to recall any fresh details. “I
can’t think of anything else that would be of use.”</p>

<p>“You’ve no idea where your brother is?”</p>

<p>“None at all,” Joan answered. Then a thought
seemed to strike her. “You don’t think Maurice had
anything to do with this?” she demanded, anxiously.</p>

<p>“He’ll turn up shortly to speak for himself, I’ve no
doubt,” Sir Clinton said, as though to reassure her.
“Now that’s all we need just now, so far as you’re
concerned. I’m going to take Mr. Clifton away for a
few minutes, but he’ll be back again almost
immediately.”</p>

<p>With a reassuring smile, the Chief Constable excused
himself and led the way to the door, followed
by Michael and the Inspector. As soon as he was out
of the room, he turned to Michael.</p>

<p>“You’re quite sure that Mr. Chacewater wasn’t in
the museum when you reached it?”</p>

<p>Michael considered carefully before replying.</p>

<p>“I don’t see how he could have been. I glanced
into all the bays; and you know there isn’t cover
enough for a cat in the place.”</p>

<p>“Was the safe door open or shut, did you notice?”</p>

<p>Michael again reflected before replying.</p>

<p>“Shut, I’m almost certain.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton in his turn seemed to reflect for a
moment or two.</p>

<p>“We’ll have a look at this fellow Marden, now, I
think, Inspector, if you’ll bring him along to
the museum. We’d better hear his tale on the
spot. It’ll save explanations about the positions of
things.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale departed on his quest while
Michael and the Chief Constable made their way to
the scene of the crime. Suddenly Sir Clinton turned
and confronted Michael.</p>

<p>“Have you any notion whatever as to where
Maurice has gone? I want the truth.”</p>

<p>Michael was manifestly taken aback by the direct
demand.</p>

<p>“I haven’t a notion,” he declared. “He wasn’t in
the museum when I got there, so far as I know. You
can put me on my oath over that, if you like.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable scanned his face keenly, but
made no comment on his statement. He led the way
to the museum; and they had hardly passed through
the door before Inspector Armadale returned with
the valet.</p>

<p>Marden appeared to be a man of about thirty years
of age. Sir Clinton noticed that he carried himself
well and did not seem to have lost his head in the
excitement of the past hour. When he spoke, it was
without any appreciable accent; and he seemed to
take pains to be perfectly clear in his evidence. Sir
Clinton, by an almost imperceptible gesture, handed
over the examination of the valet to the Inspector.
Armadale pulled out his notebook once more.</p>

<p>“What’s your name?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“Thomas Marden.”</p>

<p>“How long have you been in Mr. Foss’s service?”</p>

<p>“Since he arrived here from America, about three
months ago.”</p>

<p>“How did he come to engage you?”</p>

<p>“Advertisement.”</p>

<p>“You knew nothing about him before that?”</p>

<p>“Nothing.”</p>

<p>“Where was he living then?”</p>

<p>“At 474a Gunner’s Mansions, S.W. It’s a service
flat.”</p>

<p>“He still has that flat?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“How did he spend his time?”</p>

<p>The valet seemed astonished by the question.</p>

<p>“I don’t know. None of my business.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale was not to be turned aside.</p>

<p>“You must have known whether he stayed in the
flat or went out regularly at fixed times.”</p>

<p>Marden seemed to see what was wanted.</p>

<p>“You mean, did he go out to an office every day?
No, he came and went just when it suited him.”</p>

<p>“Had he much correspondence?”</p>

<p>“Letters? Just about what one might expect.”</p>

<p>The Inspector looked up gloomily. So far, he had
not got much to go upon.</p>

<p>“What do you mean by: ‘Just what one might
expect?’ ”</p>

<p>“He got some letters every day, sometimes one or
two, sometimes half a dozen. Just what one might
expect.”</p>

<p>“Have you any idea whether they were business
letters or merely private correspondence?”</p>

<p>Marden seemed annoyed by the question.</p>

<p>“How should I know?” he demanded, stiffly.
“It’s not my business to pry into my employer’s
affairs.”</p>

<p>“It’s your business to read the addresses on the
envelopes to see that the postman hasn’t left wrong
letters. Did you notice nothing when you did that?
Were the addresses mainly typewritten or written by
hand?”</p>

<p>“He got bills and advertisements with the address
typewritten—like most of us. And one or two letters
came addressed by hand.”</p>

<p>“Did you notice the stamps?”</p>

<p>“Some were American, of course.”</p>

<p>“So it comes to this,” Inspector Armadale concluded,
“he was not carrying on a big business from
the flat; most of his letters were ordinary bills and
so forth; but he had some private correspondence as
well; and part of his correspondence was with
America? Why couldn’t you tell us that straight off,
instead of having it dragged out of you?”</p>

<p>The valet was quite unruffled by the Inspector’s
tone.</p>

<p>“I hadn’t put two and two together the way you do.
They were just letters to me. I didn’t think anything
about them.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale showed no appreciation of this
indirect tribute to his powers.</p>

<p>“Had he many visitors?”</p>

<p>“Not at the flat. He may have met his friends in
the restaurant downstairs for all I know.”</p>

<p>“Do you remember any visitors at the flat?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>The Inspector seemed to recollect something he
had missed.</p>

<p>“Did he get any telegrams?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Frequently?”</p>

<p>“Fairly often.”</p>

<p>“You’ve no idea of the contents of these wires?”</p>

<p>Marden obviously took offence at this.</p>

<p>“You asked me before if I pried into his affairs;
and I told you I didn’t.”</p>

<p>“How often did these wires arrive?” the Inspector
demanded, taking no notice of Marden’s annoyance.</p>

<p>“Perhaps once or twice a week.”</p>

<p>“Did he bet?” the Inspector inquired, as though it
had just struck him that the telegrams might thus be
explained.</p>

<p>“I know nothing about that.”</p>

<p>Armadale went off on a fresh tack.</p>

<p>“Did he seem to be well off for money?”</p>

<p>“He paid me regularly, if that’s what you mean.”</p>

<p>“He had a car and a chauffeur, hadn’t he?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Were they his own or simply hired?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know. Not my business.”</p>

<p>“The Gunner’s Mansions flats are expensive?”</p>

<p>“They get the name of it. I don’t know what he
paid.”</p>

<p>“You don’t seem to have had much curiosity,
Marden.”</p>

<p>“I’m not paid for being curious.”</p>

<p>The Inspector put down his pencil and reflected for
a moment or two.</p>

<p>“Have you any idea of his address in America?”</p>

<p>“Not my business.”</p>

<p>“Did he write many letters?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t say. None of my business.”</p>

<p>“You can at least say whether he gave you any to
post.”</p>

<p>“He didn’t.”</p>

<p>“Have you anything else you can tell us about
him?”</p>

<p>Marden seemed to think carefully before he
replied.</p>

<p>“All his clothes were split new.”</p>

<p>“Anything else?”</p>

<p>“He carried a revolver—I mean an automatic.”</p>

<p>“What size was it?”</p>

<p>“About that length.”</p>

<p>The valet indicated the length approximately with
his hands, and winced slightly as he moved the
bandaged one.</p>

<p>“H’m! A .38 or a .45,” Armadale commented.
“Too big for a .22, anyway.”</p>

<p>He took up his pencil again.</p>

<p>“Now come to this afternoon. Begin at lunchtime
and go on.”</p>

<p>Marden reflected for a moment, as though testing
his memory.</p>

<p>“I’d better begin before lunch. Mr. Foss came to
me with a parcel in his hand and asked me to take it
over to Hincheldene post office. He wanted it registered.
He offered to let me take the car if I wished;
but I preferred to walk over. I like the fresh air.”</p>

<p>“And then?” demanded the Inspector with an
unconscious plagiarism of his Chief.</p>

<p>“Immediately after lunch, I set out and walked
through the grounds towards Hincheldene village. I
didn’t hurry. It was a nice afternoon for a walk. By
and by I met a keeper, and he told me I couldn’t go
any farther in that direction. He’d orders to turn
back any one, he said. I talked to him for a minute
or two, and explained where I was going; and I
pulled the parcel out of my pocket as a guarantee of
good faith. He didn’t know me, you see. And when I
got the parcel out, I noticed the label quite by
chance.”</p>

<p>“Ah, you do look at addresses after all!”
interjected the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Quite by chance,” Marden went on, without taking
any notice of the thrust. “And I saw that Mr.
Foss had made a mistake.”</p>

<p>“How did you know that,” Inspector Armadale
demanded, with the air of a cat pouncing on a mouse.
“You said you’d taken no interest in his correspondence
and yet you knew this parcel was directed to a
wrong address. Curious, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>Marden did not even permit himself to smile as he
discomfited the Inspector.</p>

<p>“He’d left out the name of the town. An obvious
oversight when he was writing the label.”</p>

<p>“Well, go on,” growled the Inspector, evidently
displeased at losing his score.</p>

<p>“As soon as I saw that, I knew it was no good taking
the thing to the post office as it was. So I asked
the keeper a question or two about the shortest way
to Hincheldene without getting on to the barred
ground. Then I turned and came home again, intending
to ask Mr. Foss to complete the address on the
parcel.”</p>

<p>“What time was it when you reached here again?”</p>

<p>Marden considered for a while.</p>

<p>“I couldn’t say precisely. Sometime round about
half-past three or a bit later. I didn’t look at the
time.”</p>

<p>“What did you do then?”</p>

<p>“I hunted about for Mr. Foss, but he didn’t seem
to be in the house. At last, when I was just giving it
up, I met Miss Chacewater coming away from this
room, and she told me that Mr. Foss was inside. She
went away, and I came to the door. It was half-open
and I could hear voices inside: Mr. Foss and Mr.
Chacewater from the sound. I thought they’d soon
be coming out and that I’d get Mr. Foss as he passed
me; so I waited, instead of interrupting them.”</p>

<p>“How long did you wait?”</p>

<p>“Only a minute or two, so far as I can remember.”</p>

<p>“You could hear them talking?”</p>

<p>“I could hear the sound of their voices. I couldn’t
hear what they said. There’s an echo or something in
this room and all I heard was the tone they were
speaking in.”</p>

<p>“What sort of tone do you mean?”</p>

<p>Marden paused as though searching for an
adjective.</p>

<p>“It seemed to me an angry tone. They raised their
voices.”</p>

<p>“As if they were quarrelling?”</p>

<p>“Like that. And then I heard Mr. Chacewater say:
‘So that’s what you’re after?’ Then I heard what
sounded like a scuffle and a gasp. I was taken aback,
of course. Who wouldn’t be? I stood stock still with
the parcel in my hand for a moment or two. Then I
got my head back and I pushed open the door and
rushed into the room.”</p>

<p>“Be careful here,” Sir Clinton interrupted. “Don’t
try to force your memory. Tell us exactly what comes
back into your mind.”</p>

<p>Marden nodded.</p>

<p>“When I got into the room here,” he went on, “the
first thing I saw was Mr. Chacewater. He had his
back to me and was just turning the corner here.”</p>

<p>Marden walked across and indicated the end of
the bay beyond the one which contained the safe, the
last recess in the room at the end opposite from the
door.</p>

<p>“He went round this corner in a hurry. That’s the
last I saw of him.”</p>

<p>Marden’s face betrayed his amazement even at the
recollection.</p>

<p>“Never mind that just now,” said Sir Clinton.
“Tell us what you did yourself.”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t see Mr. Foss at the first glance; but
when I got near the corner where I’d seen Mr.
Chacewater, I saw Mr. Foss lying on the floor. I thought
he’d slipped or something; and I went over to give
him a hand up. Then I saw a big knife or a dagger
through his chest and some blood on his mouth. As I
was hurrying over to his side, I slipped on the
parquet—it’s very slippery—and down I came. I put
out my hand to save myself and my fist broke the
glass in one of these cases. When I got up again, my
hand was streaming with blood. It’s a nasty gash. So
I pulled out my handkerchief and wrapped it around
my hand before I did anything else. It was simply
gushing with blood and I thought of it first of
all.”</p>

<p>Marden held up his roughly swathed hand in
proof.</p>

<p>“I got to my feet again and went over to Mr.
Foss. By that time he was either dead or next door
to it. He didn’t move. I didn’t touch him, for I saw
well enough he was done for. Then I went to the door
and shouted ‘Murder!’ as hard as I could. Then while
I was shouting, it struck me as queer that Mr.
Chacewater had disappeared.”</p>

<p>“It didn’t occur to you that he might have slipped
out of the room while your back was turned—when
you were busy over Mr. Foss?” demanded Inspector
Armadale in a hostile tone.</p>

<p>Marden shook his head.</p>

<p>“It didn’t occur to me at all, because I knew it
hadn’t happened. No one could have got out of the
room without my seeing him.”</p>

<p>“Go on with your story, please,” Sir Clinton
requested.</p>

<p>“There’s nothing more to tell. I kept shouting
‘Murder!’ and I searched the room here while I was
doing it. I found nothing.”</p>

<p>“Was the safe door closed when you saw it first?”
Sir Clinton inquired.</p>

<p>“Yes, it was. I thought perhaps Mr. Chacewater
might be inside, with the door pulled to; so I tried
the handle. It was locked.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton put a further inquiry.</p>

<p>“You heard only two voices in the room before you
burst in?”</p>

<p>A new light seemed to be thrown by this question
across Marden’s mind.</p>

<p>“I heard only two people speaking: Mr. Foss and
Mr. Chacewater; but of course I couldn’t swear that
only two people were in the room. That’s what you
meant, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale caught the drift of the inquiry.</p>

<p>“I suppose if one man can disappear in a mysterious
way, there’s nothing against two men vanishing
in the same way,” he hazarded. “So all you can
really tell us is that Mr. Foss and Mr. Chacewater
were here at any rate, and possibly there were other
people as well?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t swear to any one except these two,”
Marden was careful to state.</p>

<p>“Another point,” Sir Clinton went on. “Have you
any idea whether Mr. Foss came into contact with
a person or persons outside the house during his stay
here? I mean people known to him before he came to
Ravensthorpe?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t say.”</p>

<p>“None of your business, I suppose?” Inspector
Armadale put in, with an obvious sneer.</p>

<p>“None of my business, as you say,” Marden returned,
equably. “I wasn’t engaged as a detective.”</p>

<p>“Well, this question falls into your department,”
Sir Clinton intervened, as Armadale showed signs of
losing his temper. “What costume was Mr. Foss
wearing on the night of the masked ball? You must
know that.”</p>

<p>Marden replied without hesitation.</p>

<p>“He was got up as a cow-puncher. He hired the
costume from London when he heard about the fancy
dress. It was a pair of cow-boy trousers, big heavy
things with fringes on them; a leather belt with a
pistol-holster on it; a coloured shirt; a neck-cloth;
and a flappy cow-boy hat.”</p>

<p>“Rather a clumsy rig-out, then?”</p>

<p>Marden seemed to find difficulty in repressing a
smile.</p>

<p>“It was as much as he could do to walk at all, until
he got accustomed to the things. He told me it gave
him a good excuse for not dancing. He wasn’t a
dancing man, he said.”</p>

<p>“He carried a revolver, you say. Did you ever see
any sign that he was afraid of anything of this sort
happening to him?”</p>

<p>“I don’t understand. How could I know what he
was afraid of or what he wasn’t? It was none of my
business.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s smile took the edge off Marden’s
reply.</p>

<p>“Oh, I think one might make a guess,” he said,
“if one kept one’s eyes open. A terrified man would
give himself away somehow or other.”</p>

<p>“Then either he wasn’t afraid or else I don’t keep
my eyes open. I saw nothing of the sort.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton reflected for a moment or two. He
glanced at Armadale.</p>

<p>“Any more questions you’d like to put? No? Then
that will do, Marden. Of course there’ll be an inquest
and your evidence will be required at it. You can
stay on here until you’re needed. I’ll see Miss
Chacewater about it. But for the present you’ve given us
all the help you can?”</p>

<p>“Unless you’ve any more questions you want to
ask,” Marden suggested.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“No, I think I’ve got all I need for the present,
thanks. I may want you again later on, of course.”</p>

<p>Marden waited for nothing further, but left the
room pursued by a slightly vindictive glance from
Inspector Armadale. When he had disappeared, Sir
Clinton turned to Michael Clifton.</p>

<p>“Hadn’t you better go back to Joan, now? She
must be rather nervous after this shock.”</p>

<p>Michael came to himself with a slight start when
the Chief Constable addressed him. Hitherto his
rôle had been purely that of a spectator; and he had
been so wrapped up in it that it came as a faint
surprise to find himself directly addressed. Throughout
the proceedings he had been semi-hypnotized by the
deadly matter-of-fact way in which the police were
going about their work. When he had first heard of
the murder, he had felt as though something unheard-of
had invaded Ravensthorpe. Of course murders did
take place: one read about them in the newspapers.
But the idea that murder could actually be done in his
own familiar environment had come to him with more
than a slight shock. The normal course of things
seemed suddenly diverted.</p>

<p>But during the last ten minutes he had been a
witness of the beginning of the police investigation;
and the invincible impression of ordinariness had
begun to replace the earlier nightmare quality in his
mind. Here were a couple of men going about the
business as though it were of no more tragic character
than a search for a lost dog. It was part of their
work to hunt out a solution of the affair. They were
no more excited over it than a chess-player looking
for the key-move in a problem. The cool,
dispassionate way in which the Chief Constable had
handled the affair seemed to strike a fresh note and
to efface the suggestions of the macabre side of
things which had been Michael’s first impression of
the matter. The Dance of Death retreated gradually
into the background in the face of all the minute
questionings about letters, and visits, and
parcels—these commonplace things of everyday life.</p>

<p>“If I can be of no use here,” he said, “I think I’d
better go.”</p>

<p>He hesitated for a moment as a fresh thought
struck him.</p>

<p>“By the way, how much of this is confidential?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked at him with an expressionless
face.</p>

<p>“I think I may leave that to your discretion. It’s
not for broadcasting, at any rate.”</p>

<p>“What about Maurice?” Michael persisted.</p>

<p>“I’d leave Maurice out of it as far as possible,”
said Sir Clinton, in obvious dismissal. “Now,
Inspector, I think we’d better have a look at the late
Mr. Foss.”</p>

<p>Michael retreated from the room as they turned
towards the body on the floor.</p>

<p>“Leave Maurice out of it!” he thought, as he
walked at a snail’s pace towards the room where he
had left Joan. “That’s a nice bit of advice! If you
leave Maurice out of it, there seems to be nothing
left in it. Now what the devil am I to say to her? If
I say nothing, she’ll jump to the worst conclusion;
and if I say anything at all, she’ll jump to the same.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch09">

<h2>CHAPTER IX. <br/> The Muramasa Sword</h2>

<p>As the door closed behind Michael Clifton, the
Chief Constable turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Now we can get to business, Inspector. Let’s
have a look round the place at leisure, and perhaps
the surgeon will turn up before we reach the body
itself.”</p>

<p>Followed by Armadale, he stepped over to the bay
containing the corpse of Foss and began methodically
to inspect the surroundings.</p>

<p>“This must have been the case that Marden slipped
against when he cut his hand,” the Inspector pointed
out. “There’s a big hole in the glass and some blood
on the broken edges of the gap.”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, there’s blood enough to suit most
people,” Sir Clinton admitted, with a glance towards
the shattered case. But he seemed less interested in
the glass than in the floor surface; for he moved
slowly to and fro, evidently trying to place himself so
that the sunlight from the window was reflected up
to him from the parquet. After a moment or two, he
seemed satisfied.</p>

<p>“That part of Marden’s story seems true enough.
He did slip here. If you come across, you’ll see a line
where the polish of the parquet has been taken off
by some hard part of his shoe. You won’t be able to
spot it unless you make a mirror of the floor.”</p>

<p>The Inspector in his turn moved over and satisfied
himself of the existence of the faint mark.</p>

<p>“That confirms part of his story,” he admitted,
grudgingly. “There’s a lot of blood about, quite
apart from the stuff from the body. One might make
something out of that.”</p>

<p>“Suppose we try,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Assume
that he cut his hand here on the glass. He’d be all
asprawl on the floor; and the first thing he’d do
would be to put his hands down to help himself up.
That would account for these biggish patches here,
under the case. Then a foot or so away you see those
round marks of droplets with tiny splashes radiating
from them with a fair regularity all round. These
must have been made by drops falling from his hand
while he stood still—no doubt while he was feeling
with the other hand for his handkerchief to stanch
the bleeding.”</p>

<p>The Inspector indicated his agreement.</p>

<p>“After he’d got it fixed up, one might expect him
to go over and look at Foss. He’d gone down on the
floor, you remember, while he was hurrying to Foss’s
assistance.”</p>

<p>“There’s no sign of that,” Armadale hastened to
point out. “I can’t see any blood-drops round about
the body.”</p>

<p>“Oh, don’t be in too much of a hurry, Inspector.
Perhaps they fell in the pool of Foss’s own blood or,
more probably, his handkerchief soaked up any blood
that flowed just then.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, still with his eyes on the ground,
began to cast about in search of further traces.</p>

<p>“Ah, here are a couple of drops at the end of the
bay. Have a look at them, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Armadale knelt down and examined the clots.</p>

<p>“Made on his way to the door, probably,” he
suggested.</p>

<p>“They might have been, if he was swinging his
arms as one does when one walks freely; but one
doesn’t usually swing the arm when there’s a fresh
wound in the hand, I think. These aren’t round
blobs like the others; they’re elongated, and all the
splashing from them is at one end—the end towards
the safe. His hand, when they were made, was moving
towards the safe’s bay, whatever his body was
doing.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made a rough measurement of the
distance between the two drops.</p>

<p>“If they’d been nearer together or further apart,
then each of them might have been made while his
arm was going backwards in its natural swing while
he was walking towards the door. But the distance
between them won’t fit that. You’ll see at once if you
try walking over the ground yourself, Inspector; for
you’re just about Marden’s height and your stride
must be nearly the same as his.”</p>

<p>“He said something about going to the safe
and trying the handle,” the Inspector admitted,
grudgingly. “So far, his tale’s got some
support.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton smiled covertly at Armadale’s obvious
desire to pick holes in the valet’s narrative.</p>

<p>“Well, let’s find out how it happened,” Sir Clinton
suggested. “He evidently passed this bay and went
on towards the next one, where the safe is. We’ll
follow his example.”</p>

<p>They turned the corner of the show-case and
stepped over to the safe door.</p>

<p>“There’s a trace of blood on the handle, true
enough,” the Inspector admitted. “But I’m not sure
he told the truth about why he came to the safe.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton inspected the smear of blood on the
handle, but he seemed to attach very little
importance to it.</p>

<p>“I suppose one mustn’t jump to conclusions and
assume that everything’s all above-board,” he
conceded. “But even if we keep open minds, wouldn’t
it be the most natural thing in the world for Marden
to try the safe door? Remember what had happened
according to his story. Mr. Chacewater was in the
room, for Marden saw him with his own eyes. Mr.
Chacewater turned the corner of a bay—the one next
this; and then Marden lost him for good. If you’d
been in Marden’s place, wouldn’t you have searched
about, and then, finding no trace of the missing
man, wouldn’t you have jumped to the conclusion
that he might be hidden in the safe? And wouldn’t
you have given the handle a pull, just to make sure
the safe was really locked and that Mr. Chacewater
wasn’t hiding inside it?”</p>

<p>“I suppose so,” conceded the Inspector, evidently
dissatisfied.</p>

<p>“I expect his tale isn’t complete, of course. He
could hardly give every detail. It would be a bit
suspicious if he had, I think. If his tale had been
absolutely complete in every detail, I’d be inclined
to suspect a previously prepared recitation rather
than an account of the facts. In a case of this sort,
one could hardly expect a water-tight narrative, could
one?”</p>

<p>He continued his examination of the floor; but
there seemed to be no other blood-stains of any
importance.</p>

<p>“Now let’s have a glance at the body,” he suggested.
“We needn’t shift it till the surgeon comes;
but we can see what’s to be seen without altering its
position in the meanwhile.”</p>

<p>The Inspector was the first to reach the spot, and
as he knelt down beside the corpse he gave an
exclamation of surprise.</p>

<p>“Here’s an automatic pistol, sir. It’s lying almost
under the body, but I can see the muzzle. It looks
like a .38 calibre.”</p>

<p>“Leave it there. We’ll get at it later.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton examined the body itself. The cause of
death seemed obvious enough, for the weapon still
remained in the wound. A glance at it set the Chief
Constable’s eye ranging over the museum cases. He
retreated from the bay and searched for a time until
he found what he was looking for: an empty sheath
in an unlocked case. Without touching the sheath, he
scanned the Japanese inscription on its surface.</p>

<p>“So that’s the thing?”</p>

<p>The Inspector had come across to his side and
stood looking at the sheath.</p>

<p>“So the thing’s one of the specimens?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Yes. Don’t touch it, Inspector. We may as well
see whose finger-prints are on it, though it’s quite
on the cards that it’s been handled by other people
lately as well as the murderer. It’s rather a show
specimen, you see—one of Muramasa’s making. This
was the sword they were discussing when they were
out on the terrace. Muramasa’s weapons have the
name of being unlucky; and this one seems to bear
out the legend.”</p>

<p>The Inspector looked at the sheath with apparent
care, but his thoughts seemed to be elsewhere.</p>

<p>“Nobody could have got away from here through
the windows,” he observed, rather irrelevantly.
“They’re all barred outside, and the catches are fast
on the sashes.”</p>

<p>Evidently Sir Clinton had noticed this in the course
of his previous search, for he gave a tacit assent to
the Inspector’s statement without even glancing up at
the windows.</p>

<p>“Here are the sheets of rubbing-paper that Foss
was using,” the Inspector went on, picking them up
as he spoke. “They’ll have his finger-prints on them,
so I’ll stow them away. We might need them. One
never knows.”</p>

<p>“We can get actual prints from the body if we
need them,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “You don’t
suppose it’s a suicide case, do you?”</p>

<p>The Inspector was too wary to throw himself open
to attack. He contented himself with putting the
papers away carefully in his pocket-book.</p>

<p>“Finger-prints will be useful, though,” Sir Clinton
went on. “At the earliest possible moment, Inspector,
I want you to get prints from the fingers of every
one in the house. Start with Miss Chacewater. She’ll
agree to let you take hers without any trouble; and
after that you can go on to Mr. Clifton and so down
the scale. We’ve no authority for insisting, of course;
but you can make a note if any one objects. I expect
you’ll get the lot without difficulty.”</p>

<p>At this moment Mold opened the door to admit the
police surgeon; and Sir Clinton broke off in order to
explain the state of affairs to him. Dr. Greenlaw was
a business-like person who wasted no time. While
Sir Clinton was speaking, he knelt down beside the
corpse and made a cursory examination of it. When
he rose to his feet again, he seemed satisfied.</p>

<p>“That sword appears to have entered the thorax
between the fifth and sixth ribs,” he pointed out.
“It’s pierced the left lung, evidently; you notice the
blood-foam on his lips? And most probably it’s penetrated
right into the heart as well. It looks as if it
had; but of course I’ll need to carry out a P.M.
before I can give you exact details.”</p>

<p>“I suppose we can take out the sword before we
shift the body?” asked the Inspector. “We want to
examine it before any one else touches it.”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” Greenlaw replied. “You can see for
yourselves what happened. He was struck from the
front by a right-handed man—a fairly heavy blow, I
should judge from the depth to which that sword has
buried itself. There’s no sign of a twist in the wound,
which looks as though he went down under it at once.
Quite possibly the base of the skull may have been
fractured on the floor by the force of his fall. We’ll
see when we come to the P.M. But in any case that
wound alone would be quite sufficient to cause almost
immediate death. It’s a blade almost as broad as a
bayonet, as you can see. I’ll go into the whole thing
carefully when I can make a thorough examination.
You’ll have him sent down to the mortuary, of
course?”</p>

<p>“As soon as we’ve finished our work here.”</p>

<p>“Good. I’ll make a note or two now, if you don’t
mind. Then I’ll leave you to get on. As things are,
there’s nothing there which you couldn’t see for
yourselves.”</p>

<p>He took out a pocket-book and began to jot down
his notes.</p>

<p>“Just a moment, doctor,” Sir Clinton interposed.
“I’ve got a patient for you here. I’d like you to have
a look at his hand and bandage up some cuts before
you go.”</p>

<p>Greenlaw nodded in agreement and went on with
his note-taking.</p>

<p>“Now, Inspector,” Sir Clinton continued, “we’d
better get this sword out. Be sure to take all the care
you can not to rub out any finger-prints.”</p>

<p>Armadale obeyed, and after some cautious
manœuvres he succeeded in withdrawing the weapon,
which he laid carefully on the top of the central
show-case.</p>

<p>“Now we can have a look at him,” Sir Clinton
said. “You don’t mind our shifting the position of
the body, doctor?”</p>

<p>Greenlaw closed his note-book and prepared to
assist them if necessary.</p>

<p>“Begin with the contents of his pockets,
Inspector,” Sir Clinton suggested.</p>

<p>“The blade’s gone clean through his left breast
pocket,” the Inspector pointed out. He felt the
outside of the pocket gingerly with his fingers.</p>

<p>“Nothing there except his handkerchief, so far as
I can feel. It’s all soaked with his blood. I’ll leave
that to the last. I want to keep my hands clean while
I go over the rest.”</p>

<p>He wiped his finger-tips carefully on his own
handkerchief and continued his search.</p>

<p>“Right-hand breast pocket: a note-case.”</p>

<p>He drew it out and handed it to Sir Clinton, who
opened it and counted the contents.</p>

<p>“Three hundred and fifty-seven pounds in notes,”
he announced at length. “That’s a fair sum to be
carrying about with one. Ten visiting cards: ‘J. B.
Foss,’ with no address.”</p>

<p>He crossed over to the central case and put down
the note-case thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“The left-hand waistcoat pockets are saturated
with blood,” Armadale continued. “I’ll leave them
over for the present. Top right-hand waistcoat
pocket, empty. Lower right-hand waistcoat pocket:
a small penknife and a tooth-pick. Not much blood
here; he was lying slightly on his left side and it
must have flowed in that direction, I suppose.
Right-hand jacket pocket, outside: nothing. I’ll take the
trousers now. Right-hand pocket: key-ring and a
purse.”</p>

<p>He handed them to Sir Clinton, who examined
them in turn before putting them on the central
case.</p>

<p>“Only keys of suit-cases here,” the Chief Constable
reported. “We haven’t come across the
latch-key of his flat, if you notice.”</p>

<p>He counted the contents of the purse.</p>

<p>“Eight and sixpence and one ten-shilling note.”</p>

<p>The Inspector proceeded with his examination.</p>

<p>“Here’s something funny! He’s got a smallish
pocket over his hip, just below the trouser button.
That’s unusual. But it’s empty,” he added, after an
eager search.</p>

<p>“Let me look at that,” Sir Clinton demanded.</p>

<p>He stooped down and inspected the pocket closely,
then stood up and passed his hand across the
corresponding spot on his own clothes. As he did so,
Armadale noticed a peculiar expression pass across
the Chief Constable’s face, as though some new idea
had dawned upon him and had cleared up a difficulty.
But Sir Clinton divulged nothing of what was
passing in his mind.</p>

<p>“Make quite sure it’s empty,” he said.</p>

<p>Armadale turned the little pocket inside out.</p>

<p>“There’s nothing there,” he pointed out. “It
wouldn’t hold much—it’s hardly bigger than a ticket
pocket.”</p>

<p>He looked at the pocket again, evidently puzzled
by the importance which the Chief Constable
attached to it.</p>

<p>“It’s a silly place to have a pocket,” he said at
last. “It’s not like the old-fashioned fob. That was
kept tight shut by the pressure of your body. This
thing’s mouth is loose and it’s simply a gift to a
pickpocket.”</p>

<p>“I think we’ll probably find another of the same
kind on the other side,” Sir Clinton contented himself
with saying. “Let’s get on with the rest of them.”</p>

<p>Armadale turned the body slightly and put his
hand into the hip pocket.</p>

<p>“It’s empty, too,” he announced. “It’s a very loose
pocket with no flap on it. I expect he carried his
pistol there and he had the pocket built for easy
handling of his gun.”</p>

<p>He looked at the .38 automatic which had been
disclosed as he turned the body.</p>

<p>“That wouldn’t have fitted into the little pocket,”
he pointed out. “The pistol’s far too big for the
opening.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded his agreement with this view.</p>

<p>“He didn’t use it for his pistol. Now, the left-hand
pockets, please. You can wash your hands as
soon as you’ve gone through them.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale stolidly continued his
investigation.</p>

<p>“Left-hand breast pocket in jacket,” he announced.
“Nothing but his handkerchief, saturated with
blood.”</p>

<p>He handed it to Sir Clinton, who inspected it carefully
before putting it with the rest of the collection.</p>

<p>“No marks on it, either initials or laundry-mark,”
he said. “Evidently been bought and used without
marking.”</p>

<p>“Ticket pocket, empty,” the Inspector went on,
withdrawing his fingers from it. “Top left waistcoat
pocket: a self-filling Swan pen and a metal holder for
same. Lower left waistcoat pocket: an amber
cigarette-holder. Not much to go on there.”</p>

<p>He turned to the trousers.</p>

<p>“Left-hand trouser pocket: five coppers.”</p>

<p>Handing them over, he proceeded.</p>

<p>“Your notion’s quite right, sir. There’s another of
these side pockets here. But it’s empty like the other
one.”</p>

<p>Instead of replying, Sir Clinton gingerly picked up
the automatic pistol from the floor and placed it
along with the other objects on the central case.</p>

<p>“You’d better examine that for finger-prints,
Inspector,” he suggested. “I leave you to make the
arrangements about taking the body down to the
mortuary. The sooner the better. Now, doctor, we’ll
get your patient for you, if the Inspector will be
good enough to bring him to the lavatory near by,
where you can get his wounds patched up.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale soon produced Marden, who
seemed rather surprised at being summoned again.</p>

<p>“It’s all right, Marden,” Sir Clinton assured him.
“It merely struck me that when there was a doctor
on the premises you ought to have these cuts of yours
properly fixed up.”</p>

<p>Dr. Greenlaw speedily removed the temporary
bandage which the valet had improvised.</p>

<p>“I’ll need to put some stitches into this,” he said,
as the extent of the injury became evident. “Luckily
these glass cuts are clean-edged. You’ll hardly see
the scar after a time.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton inspected the wounds sympathetically.</p>

<p>“You’ve made a bit of a mess of your hand, Marden,”
he commented. “It’s just as well I thought of
getting Dr. Greenlaw to look after you.”</p>

<p>Marden seemed to have been looking for an
opening.</p>

<p>“I’m glad you called me up again, sir,” he explained.
“I’ve just thought of two other points about
this affair.”</p>

<p>“Yes?”</p>

<p>While the doctor was cleaning and disinfecting the
wounds, Marden addressed himself to the Chief
Constable.</p>

<p>“I forgot to say, sir, that when I got back to the
house I found Mr. Foss’s car waiting for him. I said
a word or two to the chauffeur as I passed. It only
struck me afterwards that this might be important.
I forgot about it at the time.”</p>

<p>“Quite right to tell us,” Sir Clinton confirmed.</p>

<p>“The second thing was what the chauffeur told me.
He’d been ordered to wait for Mr. Foss, it seems;
and he got the idea that Mr. Foss was leaving
Ravensthorpe this afternoon for good. I was surprised
by that; for I’d heard nothing about it from Mr.
Foss.”</p>

<p>He flinched slightly with the smart of his wounds,
as Greenlaw washed them carefully.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be struck by a fresh idea.</p>

<p>“Before the doctor bandages you up, would you
mind if we took your finger-prints, Marden? I’m
asking every one to let us take theirs, and this seems
to be the best chance we shall have of getting yours,
you see? Of course, if you object, I’ve no power to
insist on it.”</p>

<p>“I’ve no objections, sir. Why should I have?”</p>

<p>“Then you might take impressions of the lot,
Inspector,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Don’t spend too
much time over it. We must get the bandages on this
hand as quick as possible.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale hurried away for his outfit and
soon set to work to take the valet’s finger-prints.
While he was thus engaged a fresh suggestion seemed
to occur to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“By the way, Marden, you have that parcel which
Mr. Foss sent to the post?”</p>

<p>“I can give you it in a moment, sir, once the doctor
has finished with my hand.”</p>

<p>“Very good. I’d like to see it.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable waited patiently until
Marden’s hand was completely bandaged; then he
dispatched the valet for the parcel. When it was
forthcoming, he dismissed Marden again. The doctor
took his leave, and Armadale was left alone with Sir
Clinton.</p>

<p>“Now let’s see what Foss was sending off,
Inspector.”</p>

<p>Cutting the string, Sir Clinton unwrapped the
paper and disclosed a small cardboard box. Inside
on a layer of cotton-wool, was a wrist-watch.
Further search failed to bring to light any enclosed
note.</p>

<p>“I suppose he was sending it to be cleaned,” the
Inspector hazarded. “Probably he wrote a letter by
the same post.”</p>

<p>“Let’s have a look at it, Inspector. Be careful not
to mark it with your fingers.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took the watch up and examined it
closely.</p>

<p>“It looks fairly new to need repair.”</p>

<p>He held it to his ear.</p>

<p>“It’s going. Not much sign of damage there.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps it needed regulating,” Armadale
suggested.</p>

<p>“Perhaps,” Sir Clinton’s tone was noncommittal.
“Take a note of the time as compared with your own
watch, Inspector; and just check whether it’s going
fast or slow in a few hours. Try it for finger-prints
along with the rest of the stuff.”</p>

<p>He replaced it gently in its bed of cotton-wool and
closed the box, taking care not to finger the
cardboard.</p>

<p>“Now, if you’ll send for the chauffeur, we may get
something from him.”</p>

<p>But the chauffeur proved a most unsatisfactory
witness. He admitted that Foss had ordered him to
bring round the car at 3.15 and wait for further
orders; but he was unable to give any clear account
of the talk he had with his employer when the order
was given.</p>

<p>“I can’t remember what he said exactly; but I got
the notion he was leaving here to-day. I’m dead sure
of that; for I packed up my own stuff and had it
ready to go off at a moment’s notice. It’s on the grid
of the car now. I was so taken aback that I haven’t
thought of unpacking it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton could get nothing further out of the
man, and he was eventually dismissed.</p>

<p>“Now we’ll have a run over the late Mr. Foss’s
goods,” the Chief Constable proposed, when they had
dismissed the chauffeur.</p>

<p>But the search of Foss’s bedroom yielded at first
nothing of much interest.</p>

<p>“This doesn’t look as if that chauffeur had been
telling the truth,” Armadale pointed out, when they
found all Foss’s clothes arranged quite normally in
wardrobe and drawers. “Foss himself had made no
preparations for moving, that’s evident. I’ll see that
chauffeur again and go into the matter more
carefully.”</p>

<p>“You might as well,” Sir Clinton concurred. “But
I doubt if you’ll get him to shift from his story. He
seemed to be very clear about the main point, though
he was weak in details.”</p>

<p>They subjected all Foss’s belongings to a careful
scrutiny.</p>

<p>“No name marked on any of the linen; no tags on
any of the suits; no labels inside the jacket pockets,”
Inspector Armadale pointed out. “He seems to have
been very anxious not to advertise his identity. And
no papers of any sort. It looks a bit queer, doesn’t
it?”</p>

<p>As he spoke, he noticed a small leather case
standing in a corner.</p>

<p>“Hullo, here’s an attaché case. Perhaps his papers
are in it.”</p>

<p>He crossed over and picked up the case, but as
he did so an expression of surprise crossed his
face.</p>

<p>“This thing’s as heavy as lead! It must weigh ten
or twelve pounds at least!”</p>

<p>“It’s not an attaché case,” Sir Clinton pointed out.
“Look at the ends of it.”</p>

<p>Armadale turned the case round in his hand. At
the upper part of one end the leather had been cut
away, disclosing a small ebonite disc rather more
than an inch in diameter and pierced with a pattern
of tiny holes. At the opposite end of the case there
were two small holes side by side and a larger one
above; and examination showed brass sockets inside
which seemed meant for the reception of plugs.</p>

<p>“You’d better get his keys, Inspector. Probably
the key of this thing will be on the ring.”</p>

<p>With his curiosity raised to an acute pitch, Armadale
went off in search of the key-ring; and was soon
back again with it in his hand.</p>

<p>“Now we’ll see what it is,” he said, as he turned
the key in the case’s lock and pressed the opening
spring.</p>

<p>The lifting of the lid disclosed a wooden casing
fitted with a couple of hinged doors, an open recess
in which were two levers, and a hinged metal plate,
on which was an inscription. Armadale read it aloud
uncomprehendingly:</p>

<p>“ ‘Marconi Otophone. Inst. No. S/O 1164.’ What
the deuce is this?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton put out his hand and lifted the hinged
metal plate, disclosing below two wireless valves in
their sockets.</p>

<p>“Some wireless gadget,” the Inspector ejaculated.
“Now what could he possibly have wanted with a
thing like that?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton examined the instrument with interest,
then he closed the case.</p>

<p>“We’ll take this along with us, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Then, with a sudden change of mind, he
contradicted himself.</p>

<p>“No, we’ll leave it here for the present. That will
be much better.”</p>

<p>Somewhat mystified by this change of intention,
the Inspector agreed. Sir Clinton’s manner did not
invite questions.</p>

<p>“I think we had better see Miss Chacewater again.
There are one or two questions I’d like to put to her,
Inspector; and you had better be there.”</p>

<p>In a minute or two, Joan was found, with Michael
Clifton in attendance. Sir Clinton did not think it
worth while to sit down.</p>

<p>“Just a couple of points I want to ask about. First
of all, is there any record of the combination which
opens the lock of the safe in the museum?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“Maurice was the only one of us who knew it. My
father did leave a note of it; but I remember that
Maurice destroyed that. He specially wished to keep
it to himself.”</p>

<p>“Another point,” Sir Clinton went on. “Did Foss
know, on the night of the burglary, which of the rows
contained the real medallions and which row the
replicas were in?”</p>

<p>Joan reflected for a moment or two before replying.</p>

<p>“He must have known. Maurice had shown him
the things once at least, if not oftener; and I know
there was no secret as to which were the real things
and which were the counterfeits.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed satisfied with this information.</p>

<p>“One last thing,” he continued. “I suppose you
could show me where your brother keeps his
correspondence. We must get hold of Kessock’s address
and notify him about Foss’s death; and there seems
no way of doing it as quick as this one. If the papers
aren’t locked up, perhaps I could see them now?”</p>

<p>It appeared that the letters were available and Sir
Clinton turned them over rapidly.</p>

<p>“Fifth Avenue? That’s satisfactory.”</p>

<p>He put the papers back in their place.</p>

<p>“There’s just one thing more. I’m going to put a
constable on guard at the door of the museum for a
while—day and night for a day or two, perhaps. You
won’t mind?”</p>

<p>“Certainly not. Do as you wish.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acknowledged the permission. Then,
as though struck by an after-thought, he inquired:</p>

<p>“Have you Cecil’s address?”</p>

<p>Joan shook her head.</p>

<p>“He said he’d let me know where he was staying,
but he hasn’t written. Perhaps he hasn’t settled down
yet. He may be staying at an hotel for a day or two.”</p>

<p>“Please ring me up as soon as he sends word.”</p>

<p>Joan promised to do this, and Sir Clinton
continued:</p>

<p>“By the way, Inspector Armadale wishes to take
the finger-prints of every one in the house. Would
you mind setting an example and having yours taken
along with the rest? If you do it, then it will be easier
for us to get the others. They won’t be suspicious
when they hear that it’s a general inquisition.”</p>

<p>Both Joan and Michael consented without ado.</p>

<p>“The Inspector will be with you in a moment or
two,” Sir Clinton said, as he took his leave. “Just a
word with you, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Armadale followed him from the room.</p>

<p>“Now, Inspector, there’s a lot for you to do yet.
First of all, get these finger-prints. Then telephone
to London and get Kessock’s business address. As
soon as you get it, let me know.”</p>

<p>“But you got his address from the correspondence,
sir, surely. It’s in Fifth Avenue.”</p>

<p>“I want his other address—his office in New York,
you understand?”</p>

<p>“His office will be shut by now, if you’re going to
cable,” the Inspector pointed out, thoughtlessly.</p>

<p>“No, it won’t. You forget that their time is some
hours behind ours. We’ll catch him in office hours if
you hurry. Then when you’ve done that, get Foss’s
face photographed; and arrange for a constable and
reliefs to be posted at the museum door till further
orders. The museum door is to be left open and the
light is to be left burning at night, so that he can
keep his eye on things.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale jotted some notes in his
pocket-book. As he closed this, he seemed to think of
something.</p>

<p>“There’s just one thing, sir. You want to get into
the safe? Couldn’t we get the number of the lock
combination from the makers? They must know it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“Unfortunately the safe has no maker’s name-plate
on it, Inspector. I looked at the time we examined
it. It’s a fairly old pattern, though, I noticed; and if
it hasn’t got a balanced fence arbour, I think I can
guarantee to find the combination of it with a little
assistance.”</p>

<p>Armadale looked rather blank.</p>

<p>“I thought these things were too stiff to tackle,”
he said.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton suppressed a smile.</p>

<p>“You ought to read Edgar Allan Poe, Inspector.
‘Human ingenuity cannot concoct a cipher which
human ingenuity cannot resolve,’ was a dictum of
his. If I’m not mistaken about that safe, I think I
could guarantee to open it in less than ten minutes.
The resources of science, and all that, you know. But
I think it would be better to wait a while and see if
Mr. Chacewater turns up to open it for us himself.”</p>

<p>“But perhaps Mr. Chacewater’s body is inside it
now,” the Inspector suggested. “There may have
been a double murder, for all we know.”</p>

<p>“In that case, we shall find him when we open it,”
Sir Clinton assured him lightly. “If he’s inside, he’ll
hardly be likely to shift his quarters.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch10">

<h2>CHAPTER X. <br/> The Shot in the Clearing</h2>

<p>When Sir Clinton reached his office on the morning
after the murder at Ravensthorpe, he found Inspector
Armadale awaiting him with a number of exhibits.</p>

<p>“I’ve brought everything that seemed worth while,”
Armadale explained. “I thought you might care to
look at some of the things again, although you’ve
seen them already.”</p>

<p>“That’s very good of you, Inspector. I should like
to see some of them, as a matter of fact. Now
suppose we begin with the finger-prints. They might
suggest a few fresh ideas.”</p>

<p>“They seem to suggest more notions than I have
room for in my head,” the Inspector confessed
ruefully. “It’s a most tangled case, to my mind.”</p>

<p>“Then let’s start with the finger-prints,” the Chief
Constable proposed. “At least they’ll settle some
points, I hope.”</p>

<p>Armadale unwrapped a large brown-paper parcel.</p>

<p>“I got the lot without any difficulty; and last night
we photographed them all and enlarged the pictures.
They’re all here.”</p>

<p>“You took Foss’s, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Yes, and I managed to find some of Maurice
Chacewater’s too.”</p>

<p>“That’s pretty sharp work,” Sir Clinton
complimented his subordinate. “How did you manage to
make sure they were his?”</p>

<p>“I asked for his set of razors, sir, and took them
from the blades. He’d left prints here and there of
his finger and thumb, either on the blade or on the
handle. Of course I couldn’t get anything else very
sharp; but there are quite enough for the purpose, as
you’ll see.”</p>

<p>He laid out three enlarged photographs on the desk
before Sir Clinton; then, below each of the first two,
he put down a second print.</p>

<p>“This first print,” he said, pointing to it,
“represents the finger-prints we found on the automatic
pistol. You can see that it’s the arch pattern on the
thumb. Now here”—he indicated the companion
print—“is Foss’s thumb-print; and if you look at it,
you’ll see almost at a glance that it’s identical with
the print on the pistol. They’re identical. I’ve
measured them. And there are no other prints except
Foss’s on the pistol.”</p>

<p>“Good,” said Sir Clinton. “ ‘And that, said John,
is that.’ We know where we are so far as the pistol’s
concerned. Pass along, please.”</p>

<p>“I’ve examined the pistol,” the Inspector continued.
“It’s fully loaded in the magazine and has an
extra cartridge in the barrel; but it hasn’t been fired
recently so far as I can see.”</p>

<p>“Now for the next pair of prints,” Sir Clinton
suggested.</p>

<p>“This represents the thumb-print from the sword,
or whatever you call it,” said the Inspector. “Also
prints of the two middle fingers of the right hand,
found on the weapon. The second print of the pair
shows identical finger-prints from a different source.
The thumb-prints in the two cases are not exactly
alike, because you get only the edge of the thumb
marked in the grip of a sword, whereas the other
specimen gives a full imprint. But I think you’ll find
they’re the same. I’ve measured them, too. You can
see that the thumb pattern is a loop type, quite
different from Foss’s prints; and there’s a trace of a
tiny scar at the edge of the thumb in both these
prints. I’d like you to compare them carefully, sir.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took up the two prints and scanned
them with care, comparing the images point by point.</p>

<p>“There’s no mistake possible,” he said. “The two
sets are identical, so far as I can see; and the scar
on the thumb is a clinching bit of evidence.”</p>

<p>“You admit they’re from the same hand?” asked
the Inspector, with a peculiar look at Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“Undoubtedly. Now whose are the second set?”</p>

<p>The Inspector continued to look at his superior
with something out of the common in his expression.</p>

<p>“The second set of prints came from Maurice
Chacewater’s razors,” he said.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable’s lips set tightly and a touch
of grimness showed in his face.</p>

<p>“I see we shall have to be quite clear about this,
Inspector,” he said, bluntly. “By the look of you,
you seemed to think I’d be taken aback by this
evidence, because Mr. Chacewater is a friend of mine. I
was taken aback—naturally enough. But if you think
it’s going to make any difference to the conduct of
this case—and I seemed to see something of the sort
in your face—you can put that out of your mind once
for all. The business of the police is to get hold of the
murderer, whoever he may be. Friendship doesn’t
come into these affairs, Inspector. So kindly don’t
suspect me of anything of that kind in future.
You know what I mean; I needn’t put it into
words.”</p>

<p>Without giving Armadale time for reply, he picked
up the last print.</p>

<p>“What’s this?”</p>

<p>“It’s the set of prints I took from the valet’s
fingers,” the Inspector hastened to explain. “It
corresponds to nothing I’ve found anywhere else. You
can see it’s a whorl type on the thumb.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton examined the print for a moment or
two, then put it down.</p>

<p>“What about the box and the wrist-watch?” he
asked.</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale’s face showed that here he was
puzzled.</p>

<p>“There’s nothing on either of them—not a recent
mark of any description. And yet the man who
packed them up must have fingered both things.”</p>

<p>“With gloves on, evidently.”</p>

<p>“But why gloves?” the Inspector demanded.</p>

<p>“Why gloves?” Sir Clinton echoed, rather sarcastically.
“To avoid leaving finger-prints, of course.
That’s obvious.”</p>

<p>“But why avoid leaving finger-prints on a thing
that you’re sending to a jeweller for repair?”</p>

<p>“Think it over, Inspector. I won’t insult you by
telling you my solution. Let’s take another point.
Have you the watch itself here?”</p>

<p>The Inspector produced it and handed it over. Sir
Clinton took out a pocket-knife and opened the back
of the case.</p>

<p>“No use,” he announced, after examining the back
cover carefully. “It’s never been repaired. There
are no reference marks scratched on the inside of
the back as there usually are when a watch has gone
back to the watch-makers. If there had been, we
might have found out something about Foss in that
way, by getting hold of the watch-makers. By the
way, have you timed this thing as I asked you to
do?”</p>

<p>“It’s running on time,” Armadale answered. “It
hasn’t varied a rap in the last twelve hours.”</p>

<p>“A practically new watch; running to time; never
needed repair so far; dispatched by post with no
finger-marks of the dispatcher: surely you can see
what that means?”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale shook his head.</p>

<p>“It might be a secret message,” he hazarded,
though without much confidence. “I mean a
prearranged code.”</p>

<p>“So it might,” Sir Clinton agreed. “The only
thing against that in my mind is that I’m perfectly
sure that it wasn’t.”</p>

<p>Armadale looked sulky.</p>

<p>“I’m hardly clever enough to follow you, sir, I’m
afraid.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s expression grew momentarily stern;
but the shade passed from his face almost instantly.</p>

<p>“This is one of these cases, Inspector, where I
think that two heads are better than one. Now if I
tell you what’s in my mind, it might tempt you to
look at things exactly as I do; and then we’d have
lost the advantage of having two brains at work on
the business independently. We’re more likely to be
usefully employed if we pool the facts and keep our
interpretations separate from each other.”</p>

<p>The tone of the Chief Constable’s voice went a
good way towards soothing the Inspector’s ruffled
feelings, the more so since he saw the weight of Sir
Clinton’s reasoning.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry, sir. I quite see your point now.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton had the knack of leaving no ill-feelings
in his subordinates. By an almost imperceptible
change of manner, he dismissed the whole matter and
restored cordiality again.</p>

<p>“Let’s get back to the pure facts, Inspector. Each
of us must look at them in his own way; but we can
at least examine some of them without biasing each
other. Did you get any more information out of
that chauffeur?”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale seemed glad enough to forget
the slight friction between himself and his Chief, as
the tone of his voice showed when he replied.</p>

<p>“I could get nothing out of him at all, sir. He
seems a stupid sort of fellow. But it was quite clear
that somehow or other he’d picked up the idea that
Foss meant to leave Ravensthorpe for good yesterday
afternoon. He stuck to that definitely; and the
packing up of his traps shows that he believed it.”</p>

<p>“We can take it, then, that Foss gave reason for
the man thinking that he was going away. Put your
own interpretation on that, Inspector; but you
needn’t tell me what you make of it.”</p>

<p>The Inspector’s smile showed that ill-feeling had
gone.</p>

<p>“Very well, Sir Clinton. And I’ll admit that I had
my suspicions of the valet. He seems to have a clear
bill now in the matter of the finger-prints on the
weapon. Perhaps I was a bit rough on the man; but
he annoyed me—a cheeky fellow.”</p>

<p>“Oh, don’t let’s use hard words about him,” Sir
Clinton suggested chaffingly. “Let’s call him cool,
simply.”</p>

<p>“Well, his finger-prints weren’t on the handle of
the sword, anyhow,” the Inspector admitted.</p>

<p>“I hardly expected them to be,” was all the comment
Sir Clinton saw fit to make. “Now what about
friend Foss? By the way, I don’t mind saying that I
still think these two affairs at Ravensthorpe are
interconnected. And one thing’s clear at any rate: Foss
wasn’t the man in white. You remember he was
wearing a cow-boy costume according to the valet’s
evidence; and we found that costume in his
wardrobe, which confirms Marden.”</p>

<p>The Inspector seemed to be taking a leaf out of Sir
Clinton’s book. He refrained from either acquiescing
in or contradicting the Chief Constable’s statement
that the two cases were linked.</p>

<p>“Foss had more ready money in his pocket than
most people carry; he was in a position to clear out
of Ravensthorpe at any moment without needing to
go back to his flat or even to a bank. I think these
facts are plain enough,” he pointed out. “And they
fit in with the chauffeur’s evidence, such as it is.”</p>

<p>“And he had no latch-key of his flat with him,” Sir
Clinton supplemented. “Of course it was a service
flat and he may have left the key behind him instead
of carrying it with him. One could find that out if it
were worth while.”</p>

<p>“There’s a good deal that needs explaining about
Foss,” the Inspector observed. “I’ve got his
photograph here, taken from the body yesterday.”</p>

<p>He produced it as he spoke.</p>

<p>“Send a copy to Scotland Yard, Inspector, please,
and ask if they have any information about him.
Considering everything, it’s quite likely we might learn
something. You might send his finger-prints also, to
see if they have them indexed there.”</p>

<p>“I’ll send Marden’s too, when I’m at it,” the
Inspector volunteered, “and the chauffeur’s. We might
as well be complete when we’re at it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton indicated his agreement without saying
anything. He changed the subject when he next
spoke.</p>

<p>“We’ve agreed to pool the facts, Inspector, and
I’ve got a contribution—two contributions in
fact—towards the common stock. Here’s the first.”</p>

<p>He laid a telegraph form on the desk before
Armadale, and the Inspector read the wording:</p>

<blockquote class="telegram"><div>

  <p>Have no agent named Foss am not negotiating for
  Leonardo medallions. Kessock.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Well, that’s a bit of a surprise!” ejaculated the
Inspector. “It was obvious that there was something
fishy; but I hadn’t imagined it was as fishy as all
that. Kessock knows nothing about him, then?”</p>

<p>“My cable was fairly explicit. It’s clear that friend
Foss had no authority from Kessock.”</p>

<p>“But what about all that correspondence between
Maurice Chacewater and Kessock that we saw?”</p>

<p>“Forgeries, so far as the Kessock letters were
concerned, obviously. One of Kessock’s household must
have been in league with Foss and intercepted Maurice
Chacewater’s letters. Then replies were forged
and dispatched. I’ve cabled Kessock about it this
morning, so as to get the news in at once. The
confederate may hear of Foss’s murder through the
newspapers in four or five days when our papers get
across there. He might bolt when he got the news.
I’ve given Kessock a chance to forestall that if he
wants to.”</p>

<p>“That puts a new light on things, certainly,”
Armadale said when he had considered the new facts.
“Foss was a wrong ’un masquerading here for some
purpose or other—the medallions, probably. That
fits in with all the unmarked linen and the rest of it.
But why was he murdered?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton disregarded the question.</p>

<p>“I’ve got another fact to contribute,” he went on.
“You remember that Marconi Otophone in Foss’s
room? I’ve made some inquiries about it. It’s a thing
they make for the use of deaf people—a modern
substitute for the ear-trumpet.”</p>

<p>The Inspector made a gesture of bewilderment.</p>

<p>“But Foss wasn’t deaf! He admitted to you that
he had good enough hearing, when he was telling you
about overhearing Foxton Polegate in the
winter-garden.”</p>

<p>“That’s quite true,” Sir Clinton rejoined. “But he
evidently needed an Otophone for all that.”</p>

<p>The Inspector pondered for a few moments before
speaking.</p>

<p>“It beats me,” he said at last.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton dismissed the subject without further
discussion.</p>

<p>“Now what about Maurice Chacewater?” he inquired.
“There’s no great difficulty in suggesting
<em>how</em> he disappeared from the museum. It’s common
talk hereabout that Ravensthorpe has secret passages;
and one of them may end up in the wall of the
museum.”</p>

<p>It was the turn of Armadale to contribute a fresh
fact.</p>

<p>“He didn’t appear at any local station yesterday
or this morning; and he didn’t use a motor of any
sort that I’ve been able to trace. I’ve had men on that
job and it’s been thoroughly done.”</p>

<p>“Congratulations, Inspector.”</p>

<p>“If he hasn’t got away, then he must be somewhere
in the neighborhood still.”</p>

<p>“I should say that was indisputable, if not
certain,” commented Sir Clinton, with a return of his
faintly chaffing manner. “A man can only be in one
place at once, if you follow me. And if he’s not there,
then he must be here.”</p>

<p>“Yes. But where is ‘here,’ in this particular case?”
inquired Armadale, following his Chief’s mood. “I
expect he’s hiding somewhere around. It’s what any
one might do if they found themselves up to the hilt
in a case of murder”—he paused for an instant—“or
manslaughter, and got into a panic over it.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton ignored the Inspector’s last sentence.</p>

<p>“I wish I could get into touch with Cecil
Chacewater. He ought to be at home just now. He’s the
only man in the family now, and he ought to take
charge of things up there.”</p>

<p>“You haven’t got his address yet, sir?”</p>

<p>“Not yet.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton put the subject aside.</p>

<p>“Now, Inspector, let me remind you of what’s
wanted:</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p class="i1">What was the crime, who did it, when was it done, and where,</p>
  <p class="i1">How done, and with what motive, who in the deed did share?</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>You put it down as murder?”</p>

<p>“Or manslaughter,” corrected Armadale. “And we
know When, How, and Where, at any rate.”</p>

<p>“Do we?” Sir Clinton rejoined. “Speak for
yourself. I’m not so sure about When and Where yet,
and How is still a dark mystery so far as I’m
concerned. I mean,” he added, “so far as legal proof
goes.”</p>

<p>The Inspector was about to say something further
when a knock at the door was heard and a constable
appeared in answer to Sir Clinton’s summons.</p>

<p>“The Ravensthorpe head keeper wants to see you,
Sir Clinton, if you can spare him a moment. He says
it’s important.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable ordered the keeper to be
admitted.</p>

<p>“Well, Mold, what’s your trouble?” he inquired,
when the man appeared.</p>

<p>“It’s this way, Sir Clinton,” Mold began. “Seein’
the queer sort o’ things we’ve seen lately, it seemed
to me that maybe another queer thing that’s happened
might be important. So I thought it over, and
I made bold to come and tell you about it.”</p>

<p>He seemed to lose confidence a little at this point;
but Sir Clinton encouraged him by a show of interest.</p>

<p>“Last night,” he went on, “I was goin’ through the
wood at the back o’ the house—about eleven o’clock
it was, as near as I can make it. At the back o’ the
house there’s a strip of woodland, then a little bit of
a clearin’, and then the rest of the wood. I’d come
out o’ the bigger bit o’ the wood and got most o’ the
way across the clearin’ when it happened. I can tell
you just where it was, for I was passin’ the old ruin
there—the Knight’s Tower they call it.”</p>

<p>He paused for a moment or two, evidently finding
continuous narrative rather a strain.</p>

<p>“The moon was well up by that time. It’s just
past the full these days; and the place was as clear
as day. Everythin’ was quiet, except an old owl that
lives in a hollow tree up by there. I could hear the
swish of my feet in the grass and mighty little else;
for the grass was dewy and made a lot o’ noise with
my stepping through it. Well, as I was goin’ along,
all of a sudden I heard a shot. It sounded close by
me; an’ I turned at once. There’s a poachin’ chap
that’s given me a lot o’ trouble, an’ I didn’t put it past
him to think he might be tryin’ to give me a scare.
But when I turned round there was nothin’ to be seen.
There was nothin’ there at all; an’ yet that shot had
come from quite close by.”</p>

<p>“Did it sound like the report of a shot-gun?” Sir
Clinton asked.</p>

<p>Mold seemed to be in a difficulty.</p>

<p>“Shot-gun sounds I know fairly well. ’T weren’t
from a shot-gun. More like a pistol-shot it sounded,
when I’d had time to think over it. An’ yet it weren’t
altogether like a pistol-shot, neither. That’s a sharp
sound. This was more booming-like, if you
understand me.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid I don’t quite see it yet, Mold,” Sir
Clinton admitted. “I know how difficult it is to
describe sounds, though. Have another try. Did it
remind you of anything?”</p>

<p>A light seemed to flicker for a moment in Mold’s
memory.</p>

<p>“I know!” he exclaimed. “It was like this. I’ve
got it! Did you ever stand at the door of our Morris-tube
range in the village while there was firin’ goin’
on inside? Well, this was somethin’ like that, only
more so. I mean as if they’d fired somethin’ a bit
heavier than a miniature rifle. That’s it! That’s just
how it sounded.”</p>

<p>He was evidently relieved by having found what he
considered an apt simile.</p>

<p>“What happened after that?” Sir Clinton
demanded.</p>

<p>“When I saw nobody near me I’ll admit I felt a
bit funny. Here was a shot comin’, so it seemed, out
o’ the empty air, with nothin’ to account for it.
Straight away, I’ll admit, sir, I began thinkin’ of that
Black Man that little Jennie Hitchin has been
spreadin’ the story about lately . . .”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton pricked up his ears.</p>

<p>“We’ll hear about the Black Man later on, Mold,
if you please. Tell us what you did at that moment.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, I searched about. The moon was clear
of clouds and the place was just an open glade. The
shot had come from quite near by, as I said. But
when I hunted I could find nothing. There wasn’t a
track in the dew on the grass. My own tracks showed
up in the moonlight as clear as clear. There wasn’t
any one hiding in the old ruin; I went through and
around it twice. There wasn’t a sound; for the shot
had frightened the owl. I found nothing. And yet I’d
take my oath that shot was fired not more than ten
or a dozen yards away from me.”</p>

<p>“Did you hear any whistle of shot or a bullet?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“H’m! That’s the whole story? Now, tell us
about this Black Man you mentioned.”</p>

<p>Mold seemed rather ashamed.</p>

<p>“Oh, that’s just child’s chatter, Sir Clinton. I
oughtn’t to have mentioned it.”</p>

<p>“I’m quite willing to listen to ‘child’s chatter,’
Mold, if it happens to be unusual.”</p>

<p>Mold evidently decided to take the plunge, though
obviously he regretted having mentioned the matter
at all.</p>

<p>“This Jennie Hitchin’s a child that lives with her
grandmother on the estate. The girl’s there at night
in case anything goes wrong with the old woman.
Old Mrs. Hitchin was taken ill one night lately, about
the middle of the night. Pretty bad she seemed; and
Jennie had to dress and go off for the doctor in a
hurry. That took her through the woods—it’s a short
cut that way and the moonlight was bright. An’ as
she was goin’ along . . .”</p>

<p>“What night was this,” Sir Clinton interrupted.</p>

<p>The keeper thought for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“Now I come to think of it,” he said, “ ’t was the
night of that robbery up at Ravensthorpe. So it was.
An’ as Jennie was goin’ along through the woods she
saw—so she says—a Black Man slippin’ about from
tree to tree.”</p>

<p>“A man in dark clothes?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. If I understood rightly, ’t was a black
man. I mean a naked man with a black skin, black
all over.”</p>

<p>“Did he molest the child?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. He seemed to be tryin’ to keep out of
her road if anythin’. But o’ course it gave her a
start. She took and ran—and small blame to her, I
think. She’s only eleven or so, an’ it gave her a
dreadful fright. An’ of course next day this tale was
all over the country-side. I wonder if you didn’t hear
it yourself, sir.”</p>

<p>“It’s news to me, Mold, I’m afraid. Even the
police can’t know everything, you see. Now before
you go I want something more from you. That night
when you were on guard in the museum, you remember.
Do you recall seeing any one there at any
time during the evening dressed in cow-boy clothes?
You know, the kind of thing in the Wild West films.”</p>

<p>Mold pondered for a time, evidently racking his
memory.</p>

<p>“No, sir. I remember nobody like that. I think
I’d have recalled it if I had. I’m rather keen on films
about cow-boys myself, and if I’d seen a cow-boy I’d
have had a good look at him, just out o’ curiosity.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton had apparently got all he needed from
Mold just then; and he sent him away quite reassured
that his visit had not been wasted.</p>

<p>“What do you make of all that, Inspector?” he
inquired with a faintly quizzical expression on his
face, as soon as the door had closed behind the
keeper.</p>

<p>Armadale shook his head. Then, seeing a chance
of scoring, he smiled openly.</p>

<p>“I was to keep my ideas to myself, you remember,
Sir Clinton.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable gave him smile for smile.</p>

<p>“That arrangement must be especially useful when
you’ve no ideas at all, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Armadale took the thrust with good humour.</p>

<p>“Give me time to think, Sir Clinton. You know
I’ve only a slow mind, and perhaps this isn’t one of
my bright days.”</p>

<p>Before Sir Clinton could retort the desk telephone
rang and the Chief Constable lifted the receiver.</p>

<p>“Yes, I am . . . Thanks very much. I’ll take down
the address if you’ll read it to me.”</p>

<p>He jotted something down on a sheet of paper.</p>

<p>“Thanks. Good-bye, Joan.”</p>

<p>He flicked the note over to Armadale.</p>

<p>“Would you mind seeing if we can get on to that
house by ’phone, Inspector? Hunt up the London
Directory for it.”</p>

<p>“It’s Cecil Chacewater’s address?” said Armadale,
glancing at the slip.</p>

<p>“Yes. The man he’s staying with may be on the
’phone.”</p>

<p>In a few minutes the Inspector came back with the
number and Sir Clinton rang up. After a short talk
he put down the receiver and turned to Armadale.</p>

<p>“He says he can’t come to-day. You heard me
explaining that we want that secret passage opened, if
there is one. But he doesn’t seem to think there’s any
hurry. He has some business which will keep him till
to-morrow.”</p>

<p>“I heard you tell him that his brother’s disappeared,”
the Inspector commented. “I’d have thought
that would have brought him back quick enough.”</p>

<p>“It hasn’t, evidently,” was all that Sir Clinton
thought it necessary to say. There seemed to be no
reason for admitting the Inspector into the secret of
the Ravensthorpe quarrels.</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch11">

<h2>CHAPTER XI. <br/> Underground Ravensthorpe</h2>

<p>When Inspector Armadale presented himself at
the Chief Constable’s office next morning he found
Sir Clinton still faithful to his proposed policy of
pooling all the facts of the case.</p>

<p>“I’ve just been in communication with the coroner,”
Sir Clinton explained. “I’ve pointed out to him
that possibly we may have further evidence for the
inquest on Foss; and I suggested that he might confine
himself to formalities as far as possible and then
adjourn for a day or two. It means keeping Marden
and the chauffeur here for a little longer; but they
can stay at Ravensthorpe. Miss Chacewater has no
objections to that. She agreed at once when I asked
her.”</p>

<p>“The jury will have enough before them to bring
in a verdict of murder against some one unknown,”
the Inspector pointed out. “Do you want to make it
more definite while we’re in the middle of the case?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made a noncommittal gesture as he
replied:</p>

<p>“Let’s give ourselves the chance, at least, of
putting a name on the criminal. If we don’t succeed
there’s no harm done. Now here’s another point.
I’ve had a telephone message from Scotland Yard.
They’ve nothing on record corresponding to the
finger-prints of Marden or the chauffeur. Foss was a
wrong ’un. They’ve identified his finger-prints; and
his photograph seems to have been easily recognizable
by some of the Yard people who had dealings
with him before. He went by the name of Cocoa
Tom among his intimates; but his real name was
Thomas Pailton. He’d been convicted a couple of
times, though not recently.”</p>

<p>“What was his line?” the Inspector inquired.</p>

<p>“Confidence trick in one form or another, they say.
Very plausible tongue, apparently.”</p>

<p>“Did they say anything more about him?” asked
the Inspector. “Anything about working with a gang
usually, or something like that? If he did, then we
might get a clue or two from his associates.”</p>

<p>“He usually played a lone hand, it seems,” Sir
Clinton answered. “Apparently he used to be on the
Halls—the cheaper kind. ‘The Wonderful Wizard
of Woz’ he called himself then. But somehow they
made the business too hot for him and he cleared out
into swindling.”</p>

<p>“Ah!” Armadale evidently saw something which
had not occurred to him before. “Those pockets of
his—the ones that puzzled me. They might have
been useful to a man who could do a bit of
sleight-of-hand. I never thought of that at the time.”</p>

<p>He looked accusingly at Sir Clinton, who laughed
at the expression in the Inspector’s eyes.</p>

<p>“Of course I admit I saw the use of the pockets
almost at once,” he said. “But that’s not a breach of
our bargain, Inspector. The facts are all that we are
pooling, remember; and the fact that Foss had these
peculiar pockets was as well known to you as to
myself. This notion about sleight-of-hand is an
interpretation of the facts, remember; and we weren’t to
share our inferences.”</p>

<p>“I knew pretty well at the time that you’d spotted
something,” Armadale contented himself with saying.
“But since you put it in that way I’ll admit you were
quite justified in keeping it to yourself as special
information, sir. I take it that it’s a race between us
now; and the one that hits on the solution first is the
winner. I don’t mind.”</p>

<p>“Then there’s one other bit of information needed
to bring us level. I’ve just had a message over the
’phone from Mr. Cecil Chacewater. It appears he’s
just got home again; came by the first train in the
morning from town, apparently. He’s waiting for us
now, so we’d better go up to Ravensthorpe. I have an
idea that he may be able to throw some light on his
brother’s disappearance. At least he may be able to
show us how that disappearing trick was done; and
that would always be a step forward.”</p>

<p>When they reached Ravensthorpe Cecil was awaiting
them. The inspector noticed that he seemed tired
and had a weary look in his eyes.</p>

<p>“Been out on the spree,” was Armadale’s silent
inference; for the Inspector was inclined to take a
low view of humanity in general, and he put his own
interpretation on Cecil’s looks.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton, in a few rapid sentences, apprised
Cecil of the facts of the case.</p>

<p>“I’d heard some of that before, you know,” Cecil
admitted. “Maurice’s disappearance seems to have
caused a bit of a stir. I can’t say he’s greatly missed
for the sake of his personality; but naturally it’s
disturbing to have a brother mislaid about the place.”</p>

<p>“Very irksome, of course,” agreed Sir Clinton, with
a faint parody of Cecil’s detached air.</p>

<p>Cecil seemed to think that the conversation had
come to a deadlock, since the Chief Constable made
no effort to continue.</p>

<p>“Well, what about it?” he demanded. “I haven’t
got Maurice concealed anywhere about my person,
you know.”</p>

<p>He elaborately felt in an empty jacket pocket,
ending by turning it inside out.</p>

<p>“No,” he pointed out, “he isn’t there. In fact, I’m
almost certain I haven’t got him anywhere in this
suit.”</p>

<p>Cecil’s studied insolence seemed to escape Sir
Clinton’s notice.</p>

<p>“There was a celebrated historical character who
said something of the same sort once upon a time.
‘Am I my brother’s keeper?’ you remember that?”</p>

<p>“Good old Cain? So he did. And his name begins
with a C, just like mine, too! Any other points of
resemblance you’d like to suggest?”</p>

<p>“Not just now,” Sir Clinton responded. “Information
would be more to the purpose at present. Let’s
go along to the museum, please. There are one or
two points which need to be cleared up as soon as
possible.”</p>

<p>Cecil made no open demur; but his manner continued
to be obviously hostile as they made their way
along the passages. At the museum door the
constable on guard stood aside in order to let them
pass in.</p>

<p>“Wait a moment,” Sir Clinton ordered, as his
companions were about to enter the room. “I want to try
an experiment before we go any further.”</p>

<p>He turned to Cecil.</p>

<p>“Will you go across and stand in front of the case
in which the Muramasa sword used to be kept?
You’ll find the sheath still in the case. And you,
Inspector, go to the spot where we found Foss’s body.”</p>

<p>When they had obeyed him he swung the door
round on its hinges until it was almost closed, and
then looked through the remaining opening.</p>

<p>“Say a few words in an ordinary tone, Inspector. A
string of addresses or something of that sort.”</p>

<p>“William Jones, Park Place, Amersley Royal,”
began the Inspector, obediently; “Henry Blenkinsop,
18 Skeening Road, Hinchley; John Orran Gordon, 88
Bolsover Lane . . .”</p>

<p>“That will be enough, thanks. I can hear you
quite well. Now lower your voice a trifle and say
‘Muramasa,’ ‘Japanese,’ and ‘sword,’ please. And
mix them into the middle of some more addresses.”</p>

<p>The Inspector’s tone as he spoke showed plainly
that he was a trifle bewildered by his instructions.</p>

<p>“Fred Hall, Muramasa, Endelmere; Harry Bell,
15 Elm Japanese Avenue, Stonyton; J. Hicky, sword,
The Cottage, Apperley . . . Will that do?”</p>

<p>“Quite well, Inspector. Many thanks. Think I’m
mad? All I wanted was to find out how much a man
in this position could see and hear. Contributions
to the pool. First, I can see the case where the
Muramasa sword used to lie. Second, I can hear quite
plainly what you’re saying. The slight echo in the
room doesn’t hinder that.”</p>

<p>He swung the door open and came into the
museum.</p>

<p>“Now, Cecil,” he said—and the Inspector noticed
that all sign of lightness had gone out of his tone,
“you know that Maurice disappeared rather mysteriously
from this room? He was in it with Foss; there
was a man at the door; Foss was murdered in that
bay over there; and Maurice didn’t leave the room
by the door. How did he leave?”</p>

<p>“How should I know?” demanded Cecil, sullenly.
“You’d better ask him when he turns up again. I’m
not Maurice’s nursemaid.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s eyes grew hard.</p>

<p>“I’ll put it plainer for you. I’ve reason to believe
that there’s an entrance to a secret passage somewhere
in that bay beyond the safe. It’s the only way
in which Maurice could have left this room. You’ll
have to show it to us.”</p>

<p>“Indeed!” Cecil’s voice betrayed nothing but
contempt for the suggestion.</p>

<p>“It’s for your own benefit that I make the proposal,”
Sir Clinton pointed out. “Refuse if you like.
But if you do I’ve a search-warrant in my pocket and
I mean to find that entrance even if I have to root
out most of the panelling and gut the room. You
won’t avert the discovery by this attitude of yours.
You’ll merely make the whole business public. It
would be far more sensible to recognize the inevitable
and show us the place yourself. I don’t want to
damage things any more than is necessary. But if I’m
put to it I’ll be thorough, I warn you.”</p>

<p>Cecil favoured the Chief Constable with an angry
look; but the expression on Sir Clinton’s face
convinced him that it was useless to offer any further
opposition.</p>

<p>“Very well,” he snarled. “I’ll open the thing, since
I must.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took no notice of his anger.</p>

<p>“So long as you open it the rest doesn’t matter.
I’ve no desire to pry into things that don’t concern
me. I don’t wish to know how the panel opens.
Inspector, I think we’ll turn our backs while Mr.
Chacewater works the mechanism.”</p>

<p>They faced about. Cecil took a few steps into the
bay. There was a sharp snap; and when they turned
round again a door gaped in the panelling at the end
of the room.</p>

<p>“Quite so,” said Sir Clinton. “Most ingenious.”</p>

<p>His voice had regained its normal easy tone; and
now he seemed anxious to smooth over the ill-feeling
which had come to so acute a pitch in the last few
minutes.</p>

<p>“Will you go first, Cecil, and show us the way? I
expect it’s difficult for a stranger. I’ve brought an
electric torch. Here, you’d better take it.”</p>

<p>Now that he had failed in his attempt, Cecil seemed
to recover his temper again. He took the torch from
the Chief Constable and, pressing the spring to light
it, stepped through the open panel.</p>

<p>“I think we’ll lock the museum door before we
go down,” Sir Clinton suggested. “There’s no need
to expose this entrance to any one who happens to
come in.”</p>

<p>He walked across the museum, turned the key in
the lock, and then rejoined his companions.</p>

<p>“Now, Cecil, if you please.”</p>

<p>Cecil Chacewater led the way; Sir Clinton motioned
to the Inspector to follow him, and brought up
the rear himself.</p>

<p>“Look out, here,” Cecil warned them. “There’s a
flight of steps almost at once.”</p>

<p>They made their way down a spiral staircase which
seemed to lead deep into the foundations of Ravensthorpe.
At last it came to an end, and a narrow
tunnel gaped before them.</p>

<p>“Nothing here, you see,” Cecil pointed out, flashing
the torch in various directions. “This passage is
the only outlet.”</p>

<p>He led the way into the tunnel, followed by the
Inspector. Sir Clinton lagged behind them for a
moment or two, and then showed no signs of haste, so
that they had to pause in order to let him catch up.</p>

<p>The tunnel led them in a straight line for a time,
then bent in a fresh direction.</p>

<p>“It’s getting narrower,” the Inspector pointed out.</p>

<p>“It gets narrower still before you’re done with it,”
Cecil vouchsafed in reply.</p>

<p>As the passage turned again Sir Clinton halted.</p>

<p>“I’d like to have a look at these walls,” he said.</p>

<p>Cecil turned back and threw the light of the torch
over the sides and roof of the tunnel.</p>

<p>“It’s very old masonry,” he pointed out.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>

<p>“This is a bit of old Ravensthorpe, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“It’s older than the modern parts of the building,”
Cecil agreed. He seemed to have overcome his
ill-humour and to be making the best of things.</p>

<p>“Let’s push on, then,” Sir Clinton suggested. “I’ve
seen all I wanted to see, thanks.”</p>

<p>As they proceeded, the tunnel walls drew nearer
together and the roof grew lower. Before long the
passage was barely large enough to let them walk
along it without brushing the stones on either
side.</p>

<p>“Wait a moment,” Sir Clinton suggested, as they
reached a fresh turning. “Inspector, would you mind
making a rough measurement of the dimensions
here?”</p>

<p>Somewhat mystified, Inspector Armadale did as he
was bidden, entering the figures up in his note-book
while Cecil stood back, evidently equally puzzled by
these manœuvres.</p>

<p>“Thanks, that will do nicely,” Sir Clinton assured
him when the task had been completed. “Suppose
we continue?”</p>

<p>Cecil advanced a few steps. Then a thought seemed
to strike him.</p>

<p>“It gets narrower farther on. We’ll have to go on
hands and knees, and there won’t be room to pass
one another. Perhaps one of you should go first with
the torch. There’s nothing in the road.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton agreed to this.</p>

<p>“I’ll go first, then. You can follow on, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale looked suspicious at this
suggestion.</p>

<p>“He might get away back and shut us in,” he
murmured in Sir Clinton’s ear.</p>

<p>The Chief Constable took the simplest way of
reassuring the Inspector.</p>

<p>“That’s an ingenious bit of mechanism in the
panel, up above,” he said to Cecil. “I had a glance
at it as I passed, since it’s all in plain sight. From this
side, you’ve only to lift a bar to open it, haven’t
you?”</p>

<p>“That’s so,” Cecil confirmed.</p>

<p>Armadale was evidently satisfied by the information
which Sir Clinton had thus conveyed to him
indirectly. He squeezed himself against the wall
and allowed the Chief Constable to come up to the
head of the party. Sir Clinton threw his light down
the passage in front of them.</p>

<p>“It looks like all-fours, now,” he commented, as
the lamp revealed a steadily diminishing tunnel. “We
may as well begin now and save ourselves the chance
of knocking our heads against the roof.”</p>

<p>Suiting the action to the word, he got down on
hands and knees and began to creep along the
passage.</p>

<p>“At least we may be thankful it’s dry,” he pointed
out.</p>

<p>The tunnel grew still smaller until they found
more than a little difficulty in making their way
along it.</p>

<p>“Have we much farther to go?” asked the Inspector,
who seemed to have little liking for the business.</p>

<p>“The end’s round the next corner,” Cecil
explained.</p>

<p>They soon reached the last bend in the passage,
and as he turned it Sir Clinton found himself at the
entrance to a tiny space. The roof was even lower
than that of the tunnel, and the floor area was hardly
more than a dozen square feet. A stone slab, raised a
few inches from the ground, seemed like a bed fitted
into a niche.</p>

<p>“A bit wet in this part,” Sir Clinton remarked.
“If I’d known that we were in for this sort of thing
I think I’d have put on an old suit this morning.
Mind your knees on the floor, Inspector. It’s fairly
moist.”</p>

<p>He climbed into the niche, which was no bigger
than the bunk of a steamer, and began to examine his
surroundings with his torch. Inspector Armadale,
taking advantage of the space thus made clear, crept
into the tiny chamber.</p>

<p>“This place looks as if it had been washed out,
lately,” he said, examining the smooth flagstones
which formed the floor. He turned his attention to
the roof, evidently in search of dripping water; but
he could find none, though the walls were moist.</p>

<p>Suddenly Sir Clinton bent forward and brought
his lamp near something on the side of the niche.</p>

<p>The Inspector, seeing something in the patch of
light, craned forward to look also, and as he did so
he seemed to recognize what he saw.</p>

<p>“Why, that’s . . .” he ejaculated.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s lamp went out abruptly, and Inspector
Armadale felt his arm gripped warningly in
the darkness.</p>

<p>“Sorry,” the Chief Constable apologized. “My
finger must have shifted the switch on the torch. Out
of the way, Inspector, please. There’s nothing more
to be seen here.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale wriggled back into the passage
again as Sir Clinton made a movement as though
to come out of his perch in the recess.</p>

<p>“So this is where Maurice got to when he left the
museum?” the Chief Constable said, reflectively.
“Well, he isn’t here now, that’s plain. We’ll need to
look elsewhere, Inspector, according to your scheme.
If he wasn’t elsewhere he was to be here. But as he
isn’t here he’s obviously elsewhere. And now I
think we’ll make our way up to the museum again.
Wait a moment! We’ve got to get back into that
passage with our heads in the right direction. Once
we’re into the tunnel there won’t be room to turn
round.”</p>

<p>It took some manœuvring to arrange this, for the
tiny chamber was a tight fit for even three men; but
at last they succeeded in getting back into the tunnel
in a position which permitted them to creep forwards
instead of backwards. They finally accomplished
the long journey without incident, and emerged
through the gaping panel into the museum once
more.</p>

<p>“Now we’ll turn our backs again, Inspector, and
let Mr. Chacewater close the panel.”</p>

<p>Again the sharp click notified them that they
could turn round. The panelling seemed completely
solid.</p>

<p>“There are just a couple of points I’d like to know
about,” Sir Clinton said, turning to Cecil. “You don’t
know the combination that opens the safe over there,
I believe?”</p>

<p>Cecil Chacewater seemed both surprised and
relieved to hear this question.</p>

<p>“No,” he said. “Maurice kept the combination
to himself.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded as though he had expected this
answer.</p>

<p>“Just another point,” he continued. “You may
not be able to remember this. At any time after you
and Foxton Polegate had planned that practical joke
of yours, did Foss ask you the time?”</p>

<p>Cecil was obviously completely taken aback by this
query.</p>

<p>“Did he ask me the time? Not that I know of. I
can’t remember his ever doing that. Wait a bit,
though. No, he didn’t.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton seemed disappointed for a moment.
Then, evidently, a fresh idea occurred to him.</p>

<p>“On the night of the masked ball, did any one ask
you the time?”</p>

<p>Cecil considered for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“Now I come to think of it, a fellow dressed as a
cow-boy came up and said his watch had stopped.”</p>

<p>“Ah! I thought so,” was all Sir Clinton replied,
much to the vexation of Inspector Armadale.</p>

<p>“By the way,” the Chief Constable went on, “I’d
rather like to get to the top of one of those turrets
up above.” He made a gesture indicating the roof.
“There’s a stair, isn’t there?”</p>

<p>Armadale had difficulty in concealing his surprise
at this unexpected demand. Cecil Chacewater made
no difficulties, but led them upstairs and opened the
door of the entrance to a turret. When they reached
an open space at the summit, Sir Clinton leaned on
the parapet and gazed over the surrounding country
with interest. As the space was restricted, Cecil
remained within the turret, at the top of the stair;
but the Inspector joined his Chief on the
platform.</p>

<p>“Splendid view, isn’t it, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Very fine.”</p>

<p>Armadale was evidently puzzled by this turn of
affairs. He could not see why Sir Clinton should
have come up to admire the view instead of getting
on with the investigation. The Chief Constable did
not seem to notice his subordinate’s perplexity.</p>

<p>“There’s Hincheldene,” Sir Clinton pointed out.
“With a decent pair of glasses one could read the
time on the clock-tower on a clear day. These woods
round about give a restful look to things. Soothing,
that greenery. Ah! Just follow my finger, Inspector.
See that white thing over yonder? That’s one of
these Fairy Houses.”</p>

<p>He searched here and there in the landscape for a
moment.</p>

<p>“There’s another of them, just where you see that
stream running across the opening between the two
spinneys—yonder. And there’s a third one, not far
off that ruined tower. See it? I wonder if we could
pick up any more. They seem to be thick enough on
the ground. Yes, see that one in the glade over there?
Not see it? Look at that grey cottage with the
creeper on it; two o’clock; three fingers. See it now?”</p>

<p>“I can’t quite make it out, sir,” the Inspector
confessed.</p>

<p>He seemed bored by Sir Clinton’s insistence on the
matter; but he held up his hand and tried to discover
the object. After a moment or two he gave up the
attempt and, turning round, he noticed his Chief
slipping a small compass into his pocket.</p>

<p>“Quite worth seeing, that view,” Sir Clinton
remarked, imperturbably, as he made his way towards
the turret stair. “Thanks very much, Cecil. I don’t
think we need trouble you any more for the present;
but I’d like to see your sister, if she’s available. I
want to ask her a question.”</p>

<p>Cecil Chacewater went in search of Joan, and after
a few minutes she met them at the foot of the stair.</p>

<p>“There’s just one point that occurred to me since
you told us about that interview you and Maurice
had with Foss before you went to the museum. You
were sitting on the terrace, weren’t you?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” Joan confirmed.</p>

<p>“Then you must have seen Foss’s car drive up
when it came to wait at the front door for him?”</p>

<p>“I remember seeing it come up just before we
went to the museum. I didn’t say anything about it
before. It didn’t seem to matter much.”</p>

<p>“That was quite natural,” Sir Clinton reassured
her. “In fact, I’m not sure that it matters much even
yet. I’m just trying for any evidence I can get. Tell
me anything whatever that you noticed, no matter
whether it seems important or not.”</p>

<p>Joan thought for almost a minute before replying.</p>

<p>“I did notice the chauffeur putting the hood up,
and I wondered what on earth he was doing that for
on a blazing day.”</p>

<p>“Anything else?”</p>

<p>“He had his tool-kit out and seemed to be going
to do some repair or other.”</p>

<p>“At the moment when he’d brought the car round
for Foss?” demanded the Inspector, rather incredulously.
“Surely he’d have everything spick and span
before he left the garage?”</p>

<p>“You’d better ask him about it, himself, Inspector,”
said Joan, tartly. “I’m merely telling what I
saw; and I saw that plain enough. Besides, he may
have known he’d plenty of time. Mr. Foss was going
away with us and obviously he wasn’t in a hurry to
use the car.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton ignored the Inspector’s interruption.</p>

<p>“I’ve got my own car at the door,” he observed.
“Perhaps you could go out on to the terrace and direct
me while I bring it into the same position as you
saw Foss’s car that afternoon.”</p>

<p>Joan agreed; and they went down together.</p>

<p>“Now,” said Sir Clinton as he started the engine,
“would you mind directing me?”</p>

<p>Joan, from the terrace, indicated how he was to
manœuvre until he had brought his own car into a
position as near as possible to that occupied by Foss’s
car on the afternoon of the murder.</p>

<p>“That’s as near as I can get it,” she said at last.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned in his seat and scanned the
front of Ravensthorpe.</p>

<p>“What window is this that I’m opposite?” he
inquired.</p>

<p>“That’s the window of the museum,” Joan explained.
“But you can’t see into the room, can you?
You’re too low down there.”</p>

<p>“Nothing more than the tops of the cases,” Sir
Clinton said. “You’d better get aboard, Inspector.
There’s nothing more to do here.”</p>

<p>He waved good-bye to Joan as Armadale stepped
into the car, and then drove down the avenue. The
Inspector said nothing until they had passed out of
the Ravensthorpe grounds and were on the high
road again. Then he turned eagerly to the Chief
Constable.</p>

<p>“That was a splash of blood you found on the wall
of the underground room, wasn’t it? I recognized it
at once.”</p>

<p>“Don’t get excited about it, Inspector,” said Sir
Clinton soothingly. “Of course it was blood; but we
needn’t shout about it from the house-tops, need
we?”</p>

<p>Armadale thought he detected a tacit reproof for
his exclamation at the time the discovery was made.</p>

<p>“You covered up that word or two of mine very
neatly, sir,” he admitted frankly. “I was startled
when I saw that spot of blood on the wall, and I
nearly blurted it out. Silly of me to do it, I suppose.
But you managed to smother it up with that bungling
with your lamp before I’d given anything away. I’d
no notion you wanted to keep the thing quiet.”</p>

<p>“No harm done,” Sir Clinton reassured him. “But
be careful another time. One needn’t show all one’s
cards.”</p>

<p>“You certainly don’t,” Armadale retorted.</p>

<p>“Well, you have all the facts, Inspector. What
more do you expect?”</p>

<p>Armadale thought it best to change the subject.</p>

<p>“That water that we saw down there,” he went
on. “That never leaked in through the roof. The
masonry overhead was as tight as a drum and there
wasn’t a sign of drip-marks anywhere. That water
came from somewhere else. Some one had been washing
up in that cellar. There had been more blood
there—lots of it; and they’d washed it away. That
tiny patch was a bit they’d overlooked. Isn’t that so,
sir?”</p>

<p>“That’s an inference and not a fact, Inspector,”
Sir Clinton pointed out, with an expression approaching
to a grin on his face. “I don’t say you’re wrong.
In fact, I’m sure you’re right. But only facts are
supposed to go into the common stock, remember.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>

<p>But the Inspector had something in reserve.</p>

<p>“I’ll give you a fact now,” he said with
ill-suppressed triumph. “As you came away, you
happened to ask Mr. Chacewater if he’d come by the
first train this morning.”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“And he said he did?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Well,” said Armadale, with a tinge of derision in
his voice, “he took you in, there; but he didn’t come
over me with that tale. He didn’t come by the first
train; he wasn’t in it! And what’s more, he didn’t
come by train to our station at all, for I happened to
make inquiries. I knew you were anxious for him
to come back, and I thought I’d ask whether he’d
come.”</p>

<p>“That’s very interesting,” said Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>He made no further remark until they reached the
police station. Then, as they got out of the car, he
turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Care to see me do a little map-drawing,
Inspector? It might amuse you.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch12">

<h2>CHAPTER XII. <br/> Chuchundra’s Body</h2>

<p>Sir Clinton’s map-drawing, however, was destined
to be postponed. Hardly had they entered his office
when the telephone bell rang. After a few moments’
conversation he put down the receiver and turned to
Armadale.</p>

<p>“That’s Mold, the keeper. He’s found Maurice
Chacewater’s body. He’s telephoning from his own
cottage, so I told him to wait there and we’ll go up in
the car. The body’s in the woods and we’ll save time
by getting Mold to guide us to it instead of hunting
round for the place.”</p>

<p>It did not take long to reach the head keeper’s
cottage, where they found Mold in a state of
perturbation.</p>

<p>“Where is this body?” Sir Clinton demanded, cutting
short Mold’s rather confused attempts to explain
matters. “Take us to it first of all and then I’ll
ask what I want to know.”</p>

<p>Under the keeper’s guidance they made their way
through the woods, and at last emerged into a small
clearing in the centre of which rose a few ruined
walls.</p>

<p>“This is what they call the Knight’s Tower,”
Armadale explained.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>

<p>“I expected something of the sort. Now, Mold,
where’s Mr. Chacewater’s body?”</p>

<p>The keeper led them round the Tower, and as they
turned the corner of a wall they came upon the body
stretched at full length on the grass.</p>

<p>“The turf’s short,” said Armadale, with some
disappointment. “There’s no track on it round about
here.”</p>

<p>“That’s true,” said Sir Clinton. “We’ll have to do
without that help.”</p>

<p>He walked over to where Maurice Chacewater was
lying. The body was on its back; and a glance at the
head was enough to show that life must be extinct.</p>

<p>“It’s not pretty,” Sir Clinton said as he pulled
out his handkerchief and covered the dead face.
“Shot at close range, evidently. I don’t wonder you
were a bit upset, Mold.”</p>

<p>He glanced round the little glade, then turned
again to the keeper.</p>

<p>“When did you find him?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“Just before I rang you up, sir. As soon as I came
across him, I ran off to my cottage and telephoned to
you.”</p>

<p>“When were you over this ground last?—before
you found him, I mean.”</p>

<p>“Just before dusk, last night, sir. He wasn’t there,
then.”</p>

<p>“You’re sure?”</p>

<p>“Certain, sir. I couldn’t have missed seeing him.”</p>

<p>“You haven’t touched the body?”</p>

<p>Mold shuddered slightly.</p>

<p>“No, sir. I went off at once and rang you up.”</p>

<p>“You met no one hereabouts this morning?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“And you saw no one last night, either?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“It was somewhere round about here, wasn’t it,
that you heard that mysterious shot you told us
about?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. I was just here at the time.”</p>

<p>Mold walked about twenty yards past the tower,
to show the exact position. Sir Clinton studied the
lie of the land for a moment.</p>

<p>“H’m! Have you any questions you want to ask,
Inspector?”</p>

<p>Armadale considered for a moment or two.</p>

<p>“You’re sure you haven’t moved this body in any
way?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“I never put a finger on it,” Mold asserted.</p>

<p>“And it’s lying just as it was when you saw it
first?” Armadale pursued.</p>

<p>“As near as I can remember,” Mold replied, cautiously.
“I didn’t wait long after I saw it. I went off
almost at once to ring up the police.”</p>

<p>Armadale seemed to have got all the information
he expected. Sir Clinton, seeing that no more
questions were to come, turned to the keeper.</p>

<p>“Go off to the house and tell Mr. Cecil Chacewater
that his brother’s found and that he’s to come here at
once. You needn’t say anything about the matter to
any one else. They’ll hear soon enough. And when
you’ve done that, ring up the police station and tell
them to send up a sergeant and a couple of constables
to me here. Hurry, now.”</p>

<p>Mold went without a word. Sir Clinton waited till
he was out of earshot and then glanced at Armadale.</p>

<p>“One thing stares you in the face,” the Inspector
said in answer to the look. “He wasn’t shot here.
That wound would mean any amount of blood; and
there’s hardly any blood on the grass.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s face showed his agreement. He looked
down at the body.</p>

<p>“He’s lying on his back now; but after he was shot
he lay on his left side till <i>rigor mortis</i> set in,” he
pointed out.</p>

<p>The Inspector examined the body carefully.</p>

<p>“I think I see how you get that,” he said. “This
left arm’s off the ground a trifle. If he’d been shot
here and fell in this position, the arm would have
relaxed and followed the lie of the ground. Is that
it?”</p>

<p>“Yes, that and the hypostases. You see the marks
on the left side of the face.”</p>

<p>“A dead man doesn’t shift himself,” the Inspector
observed with an oracular air. “Some one else must
have had a motive for dragging him about.”</p>

<p>“Here’s a revolver,” Sir Clinton pointed out, picking
it up gingerly to avoid marking it with finger-prints.
“You can see, later on, if anything’s to be
made out from it.”</p>

<p>He put the revolver carefully down on a part of
the ruined wall near at hand and then returned to the
body.</p>

<p>“To judge by the <i>rigor mortis</i>,” he said, after
making a test, “he must have been dead for a good
while—a dozen hours or more.”</p>

<p>“What about that shot that the keeper said he
heard?” queried Armadale.</p>

<p>“The time might fit well enough. But <i>rigor mortis</i>
is no real criterion, you know, Inspector. It varies
too much from case to case.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale pulled out a small magnifying
glass and examined the dead man’s hand
carefully.</p>

<p>“Those were his finger-prints on that Japanese
sword right enough, sir,” he pointed out. “You can
see that tiny scar on the thumb quite plainly if you
look.”</p>

<p>He held out the glass, and Sir Clinton inspected
the right thumb of the body minutely.</p>

<p>“I didn’t doubt it from the evidence you had before,
Inspector; but this certainly clinches it. The
scar’s quite clear.”</p>

<p>“Shall I go through the pockets now?” Armadale
asked.</p>

<p>“You may as well,” Sir Clinton agreed.</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale began by putting his fingers
into the body’s waistcoat pocket. As he did so his
face showed his surprise.</p>

<p>“Hullo! Here’s something!”</p>

<p>He pulled out the object and held it up for Sir
Clinton’s inspection.</p>

<p>“One of the Leonardo medallions,” Sir Clinton
said, as soon as he had identified the thing. “Let me
have a closer look at it, Inspector.”</p>

<p>He examined the edge with care.</p>

<p>“This seems to be the genuine article, Inspector.
I can’t see any hole in the edge, which they told me
was drilled to distinguish the replicas from the real
thing. No, there’s no mark of any sort here.”</p>

<p>He handed it back to the Inspector, who examined
it in his turn. Sir Clinton took it back when the
Inspector had done with it, and placed it in his pocket.</p>

<p>“I think, Inspector, we’ll say nothing about this
find for the present. I’ve an idea it may be a useful
thing to have up our sleeve before we’ve done. By
the way, do you still connect Foxton Polegate with
this case?”</p>

<p>Armadale looked the Chief Constable in the eye as
he replied.</p>

<p>“I’m more inclined to connect Cecil Chacewater
with it, just now, sir. Look at the facts. It’s been
common talk that there was ill-feeling between those
two brothers. Servants talk; and other people repeat
it. And the business that ended in the final row
between the two of them was centred in these Leonardo
medallions. That’s worth thinking over. Then,
again, Cecil Chacewater disappeared for a short
while. You couldn’t get in touch with him. And it was
just at that time that queer things began to happen
here at Ravensthorpe. Where was he then? It seems
a bit suggestive, doesn’t it? And where was he last
night? If you looked at him this morning, you
couldn’t help seeing he’d spent a queer night,
wherever he spent it. That was the night when this body
was brought here from wherever the shooting was
done. And when you asked Cecil Chacewater how
he’d come home, he said he’d arrived by the first
train this morning. That was a lie. He didn’t come
by that train. He’d been here before that.”</p>

<p>To the Inspector’s amazement and disgust Sir
Clinton laughed unaffectedly at this exposition.</p>

<p>“It’s nothing to laugh at, sir. You can’t deny these
things. I don’t say they prove anything; but you
can’t brush them aside by merely laughing at them.
They’ve got to be explained. And until they’ve been
explained in some satisfactory way things will look
very fishy.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton recovered his serious mask.</p>

<p>“Perhaps I laughed a little too soon, Inspector. I
apologize. I’m not absolutely certain of my ground;
I quite admit that. But I’ll just give you one hint.
Sometimes one case looks as if it were two independent
affairs. Sometimes two independent affairs get
interlocked and look like one case. Now just think
that over carefully. It’s perhaps got the germ of
something in it, if you care to fish it out.”</p>

<p>“Half of what you’ve said already sounds like
riddles to me, sir,” Armadale protested, fretfully.
“I’m never sure when you’re serious and when
you’re pulling my leg.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was saved from the embarrassment of
a reply by the arrival of Cecil Chacewater. He
nodded curtly to the two officials as he came up. The
Inspector stepped forward to meet him.</p>

<p>“I’d like to put one or two questions to you, Mr.
Chacewater,” he said, ignoring the look on Sir
Clinton’s face.</p>

<p>Cecil looked Armadale up and down before
replying.</p>

<p>“Well, go on,” he said, shortly.</p>

<p>“First of all, Mr. Chacewater,” the Inspector began,
“I want to know when you last saw your brother
alive.”</p>

<p>Cecil replied without the slightest hesitation:</p>

<p>“On the morning I left Ravensthorpe. We’d had
a disagreement and I left the house.”</p>

<p>“That was the last time you saw him?”</p>

<p>“No. I see him now.”</p>

<p>The Inspector looked up angrily from his
notebook.</p>

<p>“You’re giving the impression of quibbling, Mr.
Chacewater.”</p>

<p>“I’m answering your questions, Inspector, to the
best of my ability.”</p>

<p>Armadale made a fresh cast.</p>

<p>“Where did you go when you left Ravensthorpe?”</p>

<p>“To London.”</p>

<p>“You’ve been in London, then, until this
morning?”</p>

<p>Cecil paused for a moment or two before
answering.</p>

<p>“May I ask, Inspector, whether you’re bringing
any charge against me? If you are, then I believe
you ought to caution me. If you aren’t, then I don’t
propose to answer your questions. Now, what are
you going to do about it?”</p>

<p>Armadale was hardly prepared for this move.</p>

<p>“I think you’re injudicious, Mr. Chacewater,” he
said in a tone which he was evidently striving not to
make threatening. “I know you didn’t arrive by the
first train this morning, though you told us you did.
Your position’s rather an awkward one, if you think
about it.”</p>

<p>“You can’t bluff me, Inspector,” Cecil returned.
“Make your charge, and I’ll know how to answer it.
If you won’t make a charge, I don’t propose to help
you with a fishing inquiry.”</p>

<p>The Inspector glanced at Sir Clinton’s face, and
on it he read quite plainly the Chief Constable’s
disapproval of his proceedings. He decided to go no
further for the moment. Sir Clinton intervened to
make the situation less strained.</p>

<p>“Would you mind looking at him, Cecil, and
formally identifying him?”</p>

<p>Cecil came forward rather reluctantly, knelt down
beside his brother’s body, examined the clothes, and
finally, removing the handkerchief, gazed for a
moment or two at the shattered face. The shot had
entered the right side of the head and had done enough
damage to show that it had been fired almost in
contact with the skin.</p>

<p>Cecil replaced the handkerchief and rose to his
feet. For a few moments he stood looking down at
the body. Then he turned away.</p>

<p>“That’s my brother, undoubtedly.”</p>

<p>Then, as if speaking to himself, he added in a
regretful tone:</p>

<p>“Poor old Chuchundra!”</p>

<p>To the Inspector’s amazement Sir Clinton started
a little at the word.</p>

<p>“Was that a nickname, Cecil?”</p>

<p>Cecil looked up, and the Inspector could see that
he was more than a little moved.</p>

<p>“We used to call him that when we were
kids.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton’s next question left the Inspector still
further bemused.</p>

<p>“Out of ‘The Jungle Book’ by any chance?”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed to see the drift of the inquiry, for he
replied at once:</p>

<p>“Yes. <i>Rikki-tikki-tavi</i>, you know.”</p>

<p>“I was almost certain of it,” said Sir Clinton. “I
can put a name to the trouble, I think. It begins
with A.”</p>

<p>Cecil reflected for a moment before replying.</p>

<p>“Yes. You’re right. It does begin with A.”</p>

<p>“That saves a lot of bother,” said Sir Clinton,
thankfully. “I was just going to fish in a fresh
direction to get that bit of information. I’m quite
satisfied now.”</p>

<p>Cecil seemed to pay little attention to the Chief
Constable’s last remark. His eyes went round to the
shattered thing that had been his brother.</p>

<p>“I’d no notion it was as bad as all this,” he said,
more to himself than to the others. “If I’d known, I
wouldn’t have been so bitter about things.”</p>

<p>The sergeant and constables appeared at the edge
of the clearing.</p>

<p>“Seen all you want to see, Inspector?” asked Sir
Clinton. “Then in that case we can leave the body
in charge of the sergeant. I see they’ve got a stretcher
with them. They can take it down to Ravensthorpe.”</p>

<p>Armadale rapidly gave the necessary orders to his
subordinates.</p>

<p>“Now, Inspector, I think we’ll go over to Ravensthorpe
ourselves. I want to see that chauffeur again.
Something’s occurred to me.”</p>

<p>As the three men walked through the belt of
woodland Sir Clinton turned to Cecil.</p>

<p>“There’s one point I’d like to have cleared up. Do
you know if Maurice had any visitors in the last
three months or so—people who wanted to see the
collection?”</p>

<p>Cecil reflected for a time before he could recall
the facts.</p>

<p>“Now you mention it, I remember hearing Maurice
say something about a fellow—a Yankee—who
was writing a book on Leonardo. That chap certainly
came here one day and Maurice showed him the
stuff. The medallions were what he chiefly wanted
to look at, of course.”</p>

<p>“You didn’t see him?”</p>

<p>“No. None of us saw him except Maurice.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made no comment; and they walked
on in silence till they came to the house.
Inspector Armadale was by this time completely at
sea.</p>

<p>“Find that chauffeur, Inspector, please; and bring
him along. I’ve got one or two points which need
clearing up.”</p>

<p>When the chauffeur arrived it was evident that
Armadale had not been mistaken when he described
him as stupid-looking. Information had to be dragged
out of him by minute questioning.</p>

<p>“Your name’s Brackley, isn’t it?” Sir Clinton
began.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Joe Brackley.”</p>

<p>“Now, Brackley, don’t be in a hurry with your replies.
I want you to think carefully. First of all, on
the day that Mr. Foss was murdered, he ordered you
to bring the car round to the front door.”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. I was to wait for him if he wasn’t
there.”</p>

<p>“You pulled up the car here, didn’t you?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton indicated the position in front of the
house.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. It was there or thereabouts.”</p>

<p>“Then you put up the hood?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“What possessed you to do that on a sunny day?”</p>

<p>“One of the fastenings was a bit loose and I
wanted to make it right before going out.”</p>

<p>“You didn’t think of doing that in the garage?”</p>

<p>“I didn’t notice it, sir, until I’d brought the car
round. My eye happened to fall on it. And just then
I saw Mr. Foss going off into the house with some
people. He didn’t seem in a hurry, so I thought I’d
just time to make the repair before he came out.”</p>

<p>“You got on to the running-board to reach the
hood, didn’t you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Which running-board? The one nearest the
house?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. The other one.”</p>

<p>“So you could see the front of the house as you
were working?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Did you see anything—anything whatever—while
you were at work? You must have raised your
eyes occasionally.”</p>

<p>“I could see the window opposite me.”</p>

<p>“By and by, I think, Marden, the valet, came up
and spoke to you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, he did. He’d been going to the post, he
said, but there had been some mistake or other and
he’d come back.”</p>

<p>“He left you and went into the house?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“After that, did you see Marden again—I mean
within, say, twenty minutes or so?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Where did you see him, if you can remember?”</p>

<p>“Up there, sir, at that window. He was talking to
Mr. Foss.”</p>

<p>“When you were up on the running-board, you
could just see into the room?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“What happened after that?”</p>

<p>“I finished the repair; so I came down off the
running-board and let down the hood again.”</p>

<p>“Anything else you can remember, Brackley?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“Very well. That will do. By the way, Inspector,”
Sir Clinton turned round, preventing the Inspector
from making any comments while the chauffeur was
standing by, “I’d clean forgotten the patrolling of
the place up yonder. I’ve never found time to go up
there; but it’s really a bit out of date now. I think
we can dispense with the patrol after to-night. And
the same holds for that guard on the museum. There’s
no need for either of them.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” Armadale responded,
mechanically.</p>

<p>The Inspector was engaged in condemning his own
stupidity. Why had he not seen the possibilities
involved in that repair of the hood? With the extra
foot of elevation of course the chauffeur could see
further into the museum than a man standing on the
ground. And here was the damning evidence that
Marden’s story was a lie. And the Inspector had
missed it. He almost gritted his teeth in vexation as
he thought of it. The keystone of the case: and the
Chief Constable had taken it under his nose!</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned to Cecil as the chauffeur retired.</p>

<p>“I shall be here about one o’clock in the morning,
Cecil,” he said, lowering his voice. “I want you to be
on the watch and let me in without any one getting
wind of my visit. Can you manage it?”</p>

<p>“Easily enough.”</p>

<p>“Very well. I’ll be at the door at one o’clock
sharp. But remember, it’s an absolutely hush-hush
affair. There must be no noise of any sort.”</p>

<p>“I’ll see to that,” Cecil assured him.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Now I think we’ll go across to where we left my
car.”</p>

<p>On the way to the police station Sir Clinton’s
manner did not encourage conversation; but as they
got out of the car he turned to Armadale.</p>

<p>“Map-drawing’s a bit late in the day now, Inspector;
but we may as well carry on for the sake of
completeness.”</p>

<p>He led the way to his office, took a ruler and
protractor from his desk, and set to work on a sheet of
paper.</p>

<p>“Take this point as the museum,” he said. “This
line represents the beginning of the tunnel. I took
the bearing that time when I lagged behind you. At
the next turn—this one here—I made a pretence of
examining the walls and took the bearing as we
were standing there. I got the third bearing when I
asked you to measure the dimensions of the tunnel.
As it has turned out, secrecy wasn’t really necessary;
but it seemed just as well to keep the survey to
ourselves. I got the distances by pacing, except the
last bit. There I had to estimate it, since we were
crawling on all fours; but I think I got it near
enough.”</p>

<p>“And you carried all the figures in your memory?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I’ve a fairly good memory when I’m put
to it.”</p>

<p>“You must have,” said Armadale, frankly.</p>

<p>“Now,” Sir Clinton went on. “By drawing in these
lines we get the position of that underground room.
It’s here, you see. The next thing is to find out where
it lies, relative to the ground surface. I had a fair
notion; so when I got to the top of the turret I took
the bearing of the Knight’s Tower. I’ll just rule
it in. You see the two lines cut quite near the cell.
My notion is that there’s a second entrance into that
tunnel from that ruined tower. In the old days it
may have been a secret road into the outpost tower
when a siege was going on.”</p>

<p>“I see what you’re getting at now,” Armadale
interrupted. “You mean that Maurice Chacewater’s body
was in the cell and that it was shifted from there up
the other secret passage—the one we didn’t
see—and left alongside the tower this morning?”</p>

<p>“Something of that sort.”</p>

<p>“And now we’ve got to find who killed Maurice
Chacewater down there, underground?”</p>

<p>“There’s nothing in that, Inspector. He killed
himself. It’s a fairly plain case of suicide.”</p>

<p>“But why did he commit suicide?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton appeared suddenly smitten with
deafness. He ignored the Inspector’s last inquiry
completely.</p>

<p>“I shall want you to-night, Inspector. Come to
my house at about half-past twelve. And you had
better wear rubber-soled boots or tennis shoes if you
have them. We’ll go up to Ravensthorpe in my car.”</p>

<p>“You’re going to arrest Marden, sir?”</p>

<p>“No,” was Sir Clinton’s reply, which took the
Inspector completely aback. “I’m not going to arrest
anybody. I’m going to show you what Foss was going
to do with his otophone; that’s all.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch13">

<h2>CHAPTER XIII. <br/> The Otophone</h2>

<p>Punctually at half-past twelve the Inspector arrived
at Sir Clinton’s house. The Chief Constable’s
first glance was at the feet of his subordinate.</p>

<p>“Tennis shoes? That’s right. Now, Inspector, I
want you to understand clearly that silence is
absolutely essential when we get to work. We’ll need to
take a leaf out of the book of the ‘Pirates of
Penzance’:</p>

<blockquote class="verse"><div>

  <p class="i1">With cat-like tread</p>
  <p class="i1">Upon our prey we steal.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>That’s our model, if you please. The car’s outside.
We’ll go at once.”</p>

<p>As preparations for an important raid, these
remarks seemed to Armadale hardly adequate; but as
Sir Clinton showed no desire to amplify them, the
Inspector was left to puzzle over the immediate
future without assistance. The hint about the otophone
had roused his curiosity.</p>

<p>“Foss’s hearing was quite normal,” he said to
himself, turning the evidence over in his mind. “He
heard that conversation in the winter-garden quite
clearly enough. So quite evidently one couldn’t call
him deaf. And yet he was dragging an otophone
about with him. I don’t see it.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable pulled up the car in the
avenue at a considerable distance from the house.</p>

<p>“Change here for Ravensthorpe,” he explained,
opening the door beside him. “I can’t take the motor
nearer for fear of the engine’s noise giving us away.”</p>

<p>He glanced at the illuminated clock on the
dashboard.</p>

<p>“We’re in nice time,” he commented. “Come
along, Inspector; and the less said the better.”</p>

<p>They reached the door of Ravensthorpe exactly at
one o’clock. Cecil was waiting for them on the
threshold.</p>

<p>“Switch off those lights,” Sir Clinton said in a
whisper, pointing to the hall lights which Cecil had
left burning. “We mustn’t give the show away if we
can help it. Some one might be looking out of a
window and be tempted to come down and turn them
out. You’re supposed to be in bed, aren’t you?”</p>

<p>Cecil nodded without speaking, and, crossing the
hall, he extinguished the lamps. Sir Clinton pulled
an electric torch from his pocket.</p>

<p>“There’s a staircase giving access to the servant’s
quarters, isn’t there?”</p>

<p>Cecil confirmed this, and Sir Clinton turned to
the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Which of your men is on duty at the museum door
to-night?”</p>

<p>“Froggatt,” the Inspector answered.</p>

<p>“We’ll go along to him,” said Sir Clinton. “I want
you, Cecil, to take the constable and post him at
the bottom of that stair. Here’s the flash-lamp.”</p>

<p>Froggatt was surprised to see the party.</p>

<p>“Now, Froggatt,” the Chief Constable directed.
“You’re to go with Mr. Chacewater. He’ll show you
where to stand. All you have to do is to stick to your
post there until you’re relieved. It’ll only be a matter
of ten minutes or so. Don’t make the slightest sound
unless anything goes wrong. Your business is to
prevent any one getting down the stair. There’ll be
no trouble. If you see any one, just shout: ‘Who’s
there?’ That’ll be quite enough.”</p>

<p>The Inspector and Sir Clinton waited on the
threshold of the museum until Cecil came back.</p>

<p>“Very convenient having these museum lights on
all night,” Sir Clinton remarked. “We don’t need
to muddle about with the flash-lamp. Now just wait
here for a moment, and don’t speak a word. I’m
going upstairs.”</p>

<p>He ascended to the first floor, entered Foss’s room
and picked up the otophone, with which he returned
to his companions.</p>

<p>“Now we can get to work,” he whispered, leading
the way into the museum. “Just lock that door
behind us, Inspector.”</p>

<p>Followed by the other two he stepped across the
museum to the bay containing the safe. There he put
the otophone on the floor and opened the case of the
instrument. From one compartment he took an
ear-phone with its head-band. A moment’s search
revealed the position of the connection, and he plugged
the ear-phone wire into place in sockets let into the
outside of the attaché case. A little further examination
revealed a stud beside the leather handle, and
this Sir Clinton pressed.</p>

<p>“That should start the thing,” he commented.</p>

<p>He lifted the hinged metal plate slightly
and peered into the cavity which contained the
valves.</p>

<p>“That seems all right,” he said, as his eye caught
the faint glow of the dull emitters.</p>

<p>Shutting down the plate again, the Chief Constable
put his finger into the compartment from which he
had taken the ear-phone, pressed a concealed spring,
and pulled up the floor of the compartment.</p>

<p>“This is the microphone,” he explained, drawing
out a thick ebonite disk mounted on the false bottom
of the compartment. “It’s attached to a longish wire
so that you can take it out and put it on a table while
the case with the valves and batteries lies on the floor
out of the way. Now we’ll tune up.”</p>

<p>He brought microphone and ear-phone together,
when a faint musical note made itself heard. Then he
handed the microphone to Cecil.</p>

<p>“Hold that tight against the safe door, Cecil. Get
the base in contact with the metal of the safe and
keep the microphone face downwards. It’s essential
to hold it absolutely steady, for the slightest vibration
will put me off.”</p>

<p>He fitted on the head-band and moved the two
tiny levers of the otophone until the adjustment of
the instrument seemed to satisfy him. Then, very
cautiously, he began to work the mechanism of the
combination lock. For some time he seemed unable to
get what he wanted; but suddenly he made a slight
gesture of triumph.</p>

<p>“It’s an old pattern, as I thought. There’s no
balanced fence arbour. This is going to be an easy
business.”</p>

<p>Easy or not, it took him nearly a quarter of an
hour to accomplish his task; for at times he obviously
went astray in the work.</p>

<p>“Try to keep your feet still,” he said. “Every
movement you make is magnified up to the noise of
a pocket avalanche.”</p>

<p>At last the thing was done. The safe door swung
open. Sir Clinton took off the head-band, received
the microphone from Cecil, and packed it away in
the case of the otophone along with the ear-phone.</p>

<p>“You’d better jot down the number of the combination,
Cecil,” he suggested. “It’s on the dial at
present.”</p>

<p>While Cecil was busy with this, the Chief Constable
switched off the otophone and put it in a place
of safety.</p>

<p>“Now we’ll see what’s inside the safe,” he said.</p>

<p>He swung the door full open and disclosed a
cavity more like a strong-room than a safe.</p>

<p>“Have you any idea where the medallions were
usually kept?” he inquired.</p>

<p>Cecil went over to one of the shelves and searched
rapidly.</p>

<p>“Why, there are only two of them here!” he
exclaimed in dismay.</p>

<p>“Hush!” Sir Clinton warned him sharply. “Don’t
make a row. Have a good look at the things.”</p>

<p>Cecil picked up the medallions and scanned them
minutely. His face showed his amazement as he
turned from one to another.</p>

<p>“These are the replicas! Where have the genuine
Leonardos gone?”</p>

<p>“Never mind that for the present. Put these things
back again. I’m going to close the safe. We mustn’t
risk talking too much here; and the sooner we’re gone
the better.”</p>

<p>He picked up the otophone and led the way out
of the museum.</p>

<p>“You might bring Froggatt back to his post here,”
he said. “We don’t need him at the stair any longer.
I must go upstairs again for a moment with this
machine.”</p>

<p>Cecil piloted Froggatt back to his original post
just as the Chief Constable rejoined them.</p>

<p>“I don’t want to talk here,” Sir Clinton said to
Cecil. “Get a coat and walk with us down to the
car. We’ve done our work for the night.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable waited until they were well
away from the house before beginning his
explanation.</p>

<p>“That otophone is—as I expect you saw—simply a
microphone for picking up sound, plus a two-valve
amplifier for magnifying it. The sounds that reach
the microphone are amplified by the valves set to
any extent, within limits, that you like to set it for.
You can make the crumpling of a piece of paper
sound like a small thunderstorm if you choose; and
it’s especially sensitive to clicks and sounds of that
sort. The mere involuntary shifting of your feet on
that parquet floor made a lot of disturbance.</p>

<p>“Now in the older type of combination locks, if the
dial was carefully manipulated, a person with sharp
hearing might just be able to detect a faint click
when a tumbler fell into place in the course of a
circuit; and by making a note of the state of the
dial corresponding to each click the combination
could finally be discovered. In the modern patterns
of locks this has been got round. They’ve introduced
a thing called a balanced fence arbour, which is lifted
away from the tumblers as soon as the lock spindle
is revolved; so in this new pattern there’s no clicking
such as the older locks give.”</p>

<p>“I see now,” said the Inspector. “That’s an old
pattern lock; and you were using the otophone to
magnify the sound of the clicks?”</p>

<p>“Exactly,” Sir Clinton agreed. “It made the thing
mere child’s play. Each click sounded like a
whip-crack, almost.”</p>

<p>“So that’s why Foss brought the otophone along?
He meant to pick the lock of the safe and get the
medallions out of it?”</p>

<p>“That was one possibility, of course,” Sir Clinton
said, with a grave face. “But I shouldn’t like to say
that it was the only possibility.”</p>

<p>He smoked for a few moments in silence, then he
turned to Cecil.</p>

<p>“Now I’ve a piece of work for you to do; and I
want you to do it convincingly. First thing
to-morrow morning you’re to find some way of spreading
the news that you’ve recovered all the genuine
medallions and that they’re in the safe. Don’t
give any details; but see that the yarn gets well
abroad.”</p>

<p>“But all the real medallions are gone!” said Cecil
in disgust. “And whoever’s got them must know
they’re gone.”</p>

<p>“There’s nothing like a good authoritative lie for
shaking confidence,” Sir Clinton observed, mildly.
“That’s your share in the business. You’d better
mention it at breakfast time to as many people as
you can; and you can telephone the glad news to
me, with the door of the telephone box open so that
any one can hear it. Yell as loud as you please, or
louder if possible. It won’t hurt me at the other end.
In any case, see that the happy tidings wash the
most distant shores.”</p>

<p>“Well, since you say so, I’ll do it. But it’s sure to
be found out, you know, sooner or later.”</p>

<p>“All I want is a single day’s run of it. My impression
is that, if things go well, I’ll have the whole
Ravensthorpe affair cleared up by this time
to-morrow. But I don’t promise that as a certainty.”</p>

<p>“And this yarn is part of your scheme?”</p>

<p>“I’m setting a trap,” Sir Clinton assured them.
“And that lie is the bait I’m offering.”</p>

<p>As they reached the car, he added:</p>

<p>“See that your constable doesn’t say a word about
this affair to-night—to any one. That’s important,
Inspector.”</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch14">

<h2>CHAPTER XIV. <br/> The Second Chase in the Woods</h2>

<p>“I’ve made all the necessary arrangements, sir,”
Inspector Armadale reported to the Chief Constable
on the following evening. “A dozen constables—two
with rubber-soled shoes—and a couple of
sergeants. They’re to be at the Ravensthorpe gate
immediately it’s dark enough. The sergeants have the
instructions; the constables don’t even know where
they’re going when they leave here.”</p>

<p>“That’s correct,” Sir Clinton confirmed. “Let’s see.
That’s fourteen altogether. Less two, twelve. Plus
you and myself, fourteen. I think we’ll add to our
number. Nothing like being on the safe side. Mr.
Chacewater’s personally interested in the affair; I
think we’ll take him in also. And Mr. Clifton might
reasonably claim some share in the business. That
makes sixteen. You’re detaching two constables to
watch that lakelet. Well, surely fourteen of us ought
to be able to pick up the scoundrel without
difficulty.”</p>

<p>“You’re sure that he’ll make for the terrace over
the pool, sir?”</p>

<p>“Nothing’s sure in this world, Inspector. But I
think there’s a fair chance that he’ll make in that
direction. And if he doesn’t, why, then, we can run
him down wherever he goes.”</p>

<p>“If he goes up there, we’ll have him,” the Inspector
affirmed. “There’ll be no amateur bungling this
time, like the last affair. I’ll see to that myself. He
won’t slip through a constabulary cordon as he did
when he’d only a lot of excited youngsters to deal
with.”</p>

<p>“I leave that part of the business entirely in your
hands, Inspector,” the Chief Constable assured him.</p>

<p>“What I can’t see,” the Inspector continued, with
a faint querulousness in his tone, “is why you’re
going about the thing in this elaborate way. Why not
arrest him straight off and be done with it?”</p>

<p>“Because there’s one little party you’ve omitted
to take into your calculations, Inspector—and that’s
the jury. Suspicion’s not good enough for us at this
stage. Criminal trials aren’t conducted on romantic
lines. Everything’s got to be proved up to the hilt.
Frankly, in this case, you’ve been scattering your
suspicions over a fairly wide field, haven’t you?”</p>

<p>“It’s our business to be suspicious of everybody,”
the Inspector pleaded in extenuation.</p>

<p>“Oh, within limits, within limits, Inspector. You
started by suspecting Foxton Polegate; then you
branched off to Marden; after that you hovered a bit
round Maurice Chacewater; and at the end you were
hot on Cecil Chacewater’s heels. There’s too much
of the smart reader of detective stories about that.
He suspects about six of the characters without having
any real proof at all; and then when the criminal
turns up clearly in the last chapter he says: ‘Well,
that fellow was on my list of suspects.’ That style
of thing’s no use in real criminal work, where you’ve
got to produce evidence and not merely some vague
suspicions.”</p>

<p>“You’re a bit hard, sir,” the Inspector protested.</p>

<p>“Well, you criticized my methods, remember. If
I were to arrest the fellow just now, I doubt if I
could convince a jury of his guilt. And they’d be
quite right. It’s their business to be sceptical and
insist on definite proof. It’s that proof that I expect
to get out of to-night’s work.”</p>

<p>“It will be very instructive for me, sir,” Inspector
Armadale commented, with heavy irony.</p>

<p>“You take things too seriously,” Sir Clinton retorted,
with an evident double meaning in the phrase.
“What you need, Inspector, is a touch of fantasy.
You’ll get a taste of it to-night, perhaps, unless my
calculations go far astray. Now I’m going to ring
up Mr. Chacewater and make arrangements for
to-night.”</p>

<p>And with that he dismissed the Inspector.</p>

<p>Armadale retired with a grave face; but when he
closed the door behind him his expression changed
considerably.</p>

<p>“There he was, pulling my leg again, confound
him!” he reflected. “A touch of fantasy, indeed!
What’s he getting at now? And the worst of it is I
haven’t got to the bottom of the business yet myself.
He’s been quite straight in giving me all the facts.
I’m sure of that. But they seem to me just a jumble.
They don’t fit together anyhow. And yet he’s not the
bluffing kind; he’s got it all fixed up in his mind;
I’m sure of that, whether he’s right or wrong. Well,
we’ll see before many hours are over.”</p>

<p>And with reflections like these Inspector Armadale
had to content himself until nightfall.</p>

<p>As they drove up to the Ravensthorpe gates the
Inspector found Sir Clinton in one of his
uncommunicative moods. He seemed abstracted, and even,
as the Inspector noted with faint malice, a little
anxious about the business before them. When they
reached the gates they found the constabulary squad
awaiting them. Sir Clinton got out of the car, after
running it a little way up the avenue.</p>

<p>“Now, the first thing you’ve got to remember,” he
said, addressing the squad, “is that in no circumstances
are you to make the slightest noise until you
hear my second whistle. You know what you’re to
do? Get up behind the house at the end opposite to
the servants’ wing and stay there till you get my
signal. Then you’re to come out and chase the man
whom the Inspector will show you. You’re not to try
to catch him. Keep a hundred yards behind him all
the time; but don’t lose sight of him. The Inspector
will give you instructions after you’ve chased for a
while. Now which of you are the two with tennis
shoes?”</p>

<p>Two constables stepped out of the ranks. Sir
Clinton took them aside and gave them some special
instructions.</p>

<p>“Now, you’d better get to your places,” he said,
turning to the squad again. “Remember, not a sound.
I’m afraid you’ll have a long wait, but we must take
things as they come.”</p>

<p>As the squad was led off into the night, he moved
over to where the Inspector was standing.</p>

<p>“I want something out of the car,” he said. The
Inspector followed him and waited while Sir Clinton
switched off the headlights and the tail lamp. The
Chief Constable felt in a locker and handed
something to Armadale.</p>

<p>“A pair of night-glasses, Inspector. You’ll need
them. And that’s the lot. We’d better get to our
position. There’s no saying when the fellow may
begin his work.”</p>

<p>Rather to the mystification of the Inspector, Sir
Clinton struck across the grass instead of following
the avenue up to the house. After a fairly long walk
they halted under a large tree.</p>

<p>“A touch of fantasy was what I recommended to
you, Inspector. I think a little tree-climbing is
indicated. Sling these glasses round your neck as I’m
doing and follow on.”</p>

<p>“Quite mad!” was the Inspector’s involuntary
comment to himself. “I suppose, once we get up
there, he’ll come down again and tell me I needed
exercise.”</p>

<p>He followed the Chief Constable, however; and
was at last directed to a branch on which he could
find a safe seat.</p>

<p>“Think I’m demented, Inspector?” Sir Clinton
demanded with the accuracy of a thought-reader. “It’s
not quite so bad as that, you’ll be glad to hear. Turn
your glasses through that rift in the leaves. I was
at special pains to cut it yesterday evening, in
preparation for you. What do you see?”</p>

<p>The Inspector focused his glasses and scanned the
scene visible through the fissure in the foliage.</p>

<p>“The front of Ravensthorpe,” he answered.</p>

<p>“Some windows?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Well, one of them’s the window of the museum;
and this happens to be one of the few points from
which you can see right into the room. If the lights
were on there, you’d find that we’re looking squarely
on to the door of the safe.”</p>

<p>With this help the Inspector was able to pick out
the window which evidently he was expected to
watch.</p>

<p>“It’ll be a slow business,” Sir Clinton said in a
bored tone. “But one of us has got to keep an eye
on that window for the next hour or two at least.
We can take it in turn.”</p>

<p>They settled down to their vigil, which proved to
be a prolonged one. The Inspector found his
perch upon the branch anything but comfortable;
and it grew more wearisome as the time slipped
past.</p>

<p>“Fantasy!” he commented bitterly to himself as
he shifted his position for the twentieth time.
“Cramp’s more likely.”</p>

<p>But at last their tenacity was rewarded. It was
during one of the Inspector’s spells of watching.
Suddenly the dark rectangle of the window flashed into
momentary illumination and faded again.</p>

<p>“There he is!” exclaimed the Inspector. “He’s
carrying a flash-lamp.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton lifted his glasses and examined the
place in his turn.</p>

<p>“I can see him moving about in the room,” the
Inspector reported excitedly. “Now he’s going over
towards the safe. Can you see him, sir?”</p>

<p>“Fairly well. What do you make of him?”</p>

<p>The Inspector studied his quarry intently for a
while.</p>

<p>“That’s the otophone, isn’t it, sir? I can’t see his
face; it seems as if he’d blackened it. . . . No, he’s
wearing a big mask. It looks like . . .”</p>

<p>His voice rose sharply.</p>

<p>“It’s Marden! I recognize that water-proof of
his; I could swear to it anywhere.”</p>

<p>“That’s quite correct, Inspector. Now I think
we’ll get down from this tree as quick as we can
and I’ll blow my whistle. That ought to startle him.
And I’ve arranged for that to be the signal for a
considerable amount of noise in the house, which
ought to give the effect we want.”</p>

<p>He slipped lightly down the branches, waited for
the slower-moving Inspector, and then blew a single
shrill blast on his whistle.</p>

<p>“That’s roused them,” he said, with satisfaction,
as some lights flashed up in windows on the front
of Ravensthorpe. “I guess that amount of stir
about the place will flush our friend without any
trouble.”</p>

<p>He gazed through his glasses at the main door.</p>

<p>“There he goes, Inspector!”</p>

<p>A dark figure emerged suddenly on the threshold,
hesitated for a moment, and then ran down the steps.
Armadale instinctively started forward; but the cool
voice of the Chief Constable recalled him.</p>

<p>“There’s no hurry, Inspector! You’d better hang
your glasses on the tree here. They’ll only hamper
you in running.”</p>

<p>Hurriedly the Inspector obeyed; and Sir Clinton
leisurely hung up his own pair. Armadale turned
again and followed the burglar with his eyes.</p>

<p>“He’s making for the old quarry, sir.”</p>

<p>“So I see,” Sir Clinton assured him. “I want the
fellow to have a good start, remember. I don’t wish
him to be pressed. Now we may as well get the chase
organized.”</p>

<p>Followed by the Inspector, he hurried towards the
front of Ravensthorpe.</p>

<p>“I think that’s a fair start to give him,” he
estimated aloud. Then, lifting his whistle, he blew a
second blast.</p>

<p>Almost immediately the figures of Cecil Chacewater
and Michael Clifton emerged from the main
door, while a few seconds later the police squad
rounded the corner of the house.</p>

<p>“Carry on, Inspector!” Sir Clinton advised. “I
leave the rest of the round-up to you. But keep
exactly to what I told you.”</p>

<p>Armadale hurried off, and within a few seconds the
chase had been set afoot.</p>

<p>“We must see if we can wipe your eye this time,
Mr. Clifton,” the Chief Constable observed. “It’s
a run over the old ground, you notice.”</p>

<p>Michael Clifton nodded in answer.</p>

<p>“If you’d let me run him down I’d be obliged to
you,” he suggested. “You’ve given him a longish
start, certainly; but I think I could pull him in.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton made a gesture of dissent.</p>

<p>“Oh, no. We must give him a run for his money.
Besides, it wouldn’t suit my book to have him run
down too early in the game.”</p>

<p>The fugitive had reached the edge of the pine-wood
as they were speaking, and now he disappeared from
their sight among the arcades of the trees.</p>

<p>“The moon will be down in no time,” Cecil pointed
out as they ran. “Aren’t you taking the risk of losing
him up in the woods there? It’ll be pretty dark under
the trees.”</p>

<p>He quickened his pace slightly in his eagerness;
but the Chief Constable restrained him.</p>

<p>“Leave it to Armadale. It’s his affair. We’re only
spectators, really.”</p>

<p>“I want the beggar caught,” Cecil grumbled, but
he obeyed Sir Clinton’s orders and slowed down
slightly.</p>

<p>A few seconds brought them to the fringe of the
wood; and far ahead of them they could see the form
of the burglar running steadily up the track.</p>

<p>“Just the same as before?” Sir Clinton demanded
from Michael.</p>

<p>“Just the same.”</p>

<p>Through the wood they went behind the police
squad. At the brow of the hill, where the trees began
to thin, Armadale called a halt. They could hear
him giving orders for the formation of his cordon.
When his men began to move off under his directions
the Inspector came over to Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“He’ll not slip through our hands this time, sir.
I’ll beat every bit of cover in that spinney. He can’t
get away on either side without being spotted. We’ll
get our hands on him in a few minutes now. I
suppose he’s armed?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>

<p>“I should doubt that.”</p>

<p>The Inspector failed to conceal his surprise.</p>

<p>“Not armed? He’s sure to be.”</p>

<p>“We’ll see in a minute or two,” the Chief Constable
answered. “You’d better get your beaters to
work, hadn’t you? . . . Ah!”</p>

<p>In the silence they heard the sound of a faint
splash from the direction of the quarry.</p>

<p>“History’s repeating itself pretty accurately, isn’t
it?” said Sir Clinton, turning to Michael. “That’s
the kind of thing you heard the other night?”</p>

<p>“Just the same,” Michael admitted.</p>

<p>But as the line of constables moved forward he
could not help contrasting their methodical work with
the rather haphazard doings of the pursuers on the
earlier occasion. Armadale had evidently issued
stringent orders, for not a tuft of undergrowth was
left unexamined as the line slowly closed in upon
the hunted man. Every possible piece of cover was
scrutinized and beaten before the cordon passed
beyond it.</p>

<p>“Very pretty,” Sir Clinton commented, as they
moved up in the rear of the line. “The Inspector
must surely have been training these fellows. They
really do the business excellently.”</p>

<p>Michael suddenly left the path they were following
and stepped across under the trees.</p>

<p>“I’m going to have a look at that Fairy House
myself,” he declared. “That’s where I found Maurice
after the last show. I want to be perfectly certain
that it’s empty.”</p>

<p>He opened the door, leaned inside the building, and
then came back to his companions. Something like
disappointment was visible in his expression. He was
taken aback to see glances of sardonic amusement
exchanged between Cecil and the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“Drawn blank, have you?” Cecil inquired.</p>

<p>“There’s no one there at present,” Michael
admitted.</p>

<p>“I don’t think the constables would have missed a
plain thing like that,” Sir Clinton remarked mildly,
though with a faint undertone of correction in his
voice.</p>

<p>Before Michael had time to reply they heard
Armadale’s voice. The cordon had passed completely
through the spinney and was now on the edge of the
marble terrace.</p>

<p>“Come along,” Sir Clinton urged. “We mustn’t
miss the final scene.”</p>

<p>They hurriedly joined the line just as Armadale
ordered a last advance.</p>

<p>“He’s somewhere on this terrace,” he told his men.
“See that he doesn’t break away from you at the last
moment.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton turned to Michael.</p>

<p>“Just the same as before?”</p>

<p>Michael made a gesture of assent.</p>

<p>“I’ll admit that this is more businesslike.”</p>

<p>The Constabulary line crept forward almost foot
by foot, subjecting every one of the marble seats to
the most rigid scrutiny. Inspector Armadale’s anxiety
was more and more apparent as the cordon advanced
without securing the man for whom they were searching.
At last the whole of the possible cover had been
beaten, and the constables emerged on the open
terrace. The fugitive had vanished, apparently, into
thin air.</p>

<p>Michael Clifton turned to the Chief Constable with
an ironical smile.</p>

<p>“<em>Just</em> the same as last time, it seems. How history
repeats itself!”</p>

<p>The Inspector hurried across the terrace to where
they were standing. It was obvious that he was
completely staggered by the turn of events.</p>

<p>“He’s got away, sir,” he reported in a mortified
voice. “I can’t think how he’s managed it.”</p>

<p>“I think we’ll repeat that last stage again,
Inspector, if you don’t mind. Withdraw your men till
they’re just in front of that last line of seats.”</p>

<p>While the Inspector was giving his orders Sir Clinton
pulled his case from his pocket, opened it, and
thoughtfully tapped a cigarette on the lid. Before
lighting it he threw a glance up and down the empty
spaces of the terrace from which the fugitive had so
mysteriously vanished.</p>

<p>“All plain and above board, isn’t it?” he said,
turning to his two companions. “I’ve got nothing in
my hands except a cigarette, and you can search my
sleeves if you like. It is required, as Euclid would
say, to produce a full-sized burglar for the
satisfaction of the audience. It’s a stiff job.”</p>

<p>He glanced again over the wide white pavement of
the terrace.</p>

<p>“A conjurer’s usually allowed a little patter, isn’t
he? The quickness of the tongue distracts the eye,
and all that. Just a question, then. Do you happen
to remember what Medusa was able to do? Turned
things into stone when she looked at them, didn’t
she? That somehow brings the late Pygmalion to my
mind—a kind of association of opposites, in a way,
I suppose. But I’ve often wondered what Pygmalion
felt like when the statue came to life.”</p>

<p>He turned sharply on his heel.</p>

<p>“You can come down off that pedestal, my friend.
The game’s up!”</p>

<p>To the amazement of the group around him, the
white marble statue above him started suddenly into
life. It leapt down from its base on to the pavement
of the terrace, staggered as it alighted, and then, as
Cecil and Michael grasped at its smooth sides, it
shook itself clear and sprang upon the broad marble
balustrade.</p>

<p>“Come back, you fool!” Sir Clinton snapped, as
the figure faced outward to the gulf below.</p>

<p>But instead of halting, the white form gathered
itself together for an instant and then dived
headlong into the abyss. There was the sound of a
splash; and an appalling cry came up through the
night.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton dashed to the rail.</p>

<p>“Below, there! Get out on that raft at once and
pick him up. He’s badly hurt. He’ll drown if you
don’t hurry.”</p>

<p>The Inspector hurried forward.</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you warn us, sir? We’d have had
Marden as easy as anything. If you’d only told us
what to expect.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton looked round.</p>

<p>“Marden? That’s not Marden. I tell you, Inspector,
if that jump of his meant anything, it
suggests that there’s no Marden at all.”</p>

<p>The Inspector’s amazement overbore his
chagrin.</p>

<p>“I don’t understand . . .” he began.</p>

<p>“Never mind. I’ll explain later. Get away down
to the water-side at once. See if he’s badly damaged.
Quick, now.”</p>

<p>As the Inspector hurried off, the Chief Constable
turned to Michael Clifton.</p>

<p>“History doesn’t always repeat itself exactly, you
see.”</p>

<p>He pulled out a match-box and lit his cigarette in
a leisurely fashion. Then, throwing away the vesta,
he inquired:</p>

<p>“You see now how he got away from you last
time?”</p>

<p>Michael made no reply. He was examining the
pedestal from which the living statue had taken its
flight; and he could see the scores and cuts left by
the chisel which had smoothed the standing-place of
the original marble figure. Quite obviously, on the
night of the masked ball, the same trick had been
played; and while the pursuers were searching all
around, the fugitive had stood rigid above them,
unsuspected by any one.</p>

<p>Cecil turned to the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“Aren’t you going down to see if something can’t
be done for the poor devil? He must have come a
fearful smash on the rocks.”</p>

<p>“Poor devil?” Sir Clinton retorted. “That’s not a
poor devil. That’s a wild beast, if you’re anxious for
information. But if you’re a member of the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, I suppose
we’d better see that things are done decently and in
order. We’ll go down, if you’re perturbed about him.”</p>

<p>It took them some little time to descend to the level
of the lakelet. They could see, as they went down,
the process of rescue; and when they reached the
water-side, they found two constables stooping over
a limp white figure, beside which the Inspector knelt
solicitously. As the newcomers approached,
Armadale rose and stepped over to them.</p>

<p>“He’s done for, sir,” he reported in a low voice to
Sir Clinton. “His pelvis is smashed and I think his
spine must have gone as well. He’s paralysed below
the waist. I doubt if he’ll last long. It was a fearful
smash.”</p>

<p>Cecil crossed over and peered down at the face of
the dying man. For a moment he failed to recognize
him; for the white grease-paint disguised the natural
appearance of the features: but a closer scrutiny
revealed the identity of the living statue.</p>

<p>“Why, it’s the chauffeur!”</p>

<p>“Of course,” was all that Sir Clinton thought it
worth while to say.</p>

<p>Armadale brought something up from the
water-side.</p>

<p>“Here’s the waterproof he was wearing, sir. It’s
Marden’s, just as I told you when I saw him in the
museum to-night. When he flung it over the edge
of the cliff as we were coming up, it landed on a
broad bit of rock instead of sinking like the Pierrot
costume, the other night.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was silent for a moment. His glance
wandered to the broken, white-clad figure on the
ground, but no pity showed on his face. Then he
turned back to Armadale.</p>

<p>“See if you can get a confession out of him,
Inspector. He won’t live long at the best; and he might
as well tell what he can. We can’t hang him now,
unfortunately; and he may as well save us some
trouble in piecing things together. For one thing, he’s
got a bag or a suit-case lying around somewhere
in the neighbourhood with a suit of clothes in it.
You’d better find out where that is, and save us the
bother of hunting for it. If you manage to get
anything out of him, take it down and get it witnessed.
Bring it down to Ravensthorpe at once.”</p>

<p>He paused, then added as if by an after-thought:</p>

<p>“You’d better search these tights that he’s wearing.
There ought to be five of the medallions
concealed about him somewhere. Get them for me.”</p>

<p>He turned to Cecil and Michael.</p>

<p>“We’ll go back now to Ravensthorpe. Unless I’m
far astray in my deductions, there’s been another
murder there; and we must keep the girls from
hearing about it, if we can.”</p>

<p>As they walked through the pine-wood, Sir Clinton
maintained a complete taciturnity, and neither
of the others cared to break in on his silence. His
last words had shown that ahead of them might lie
yet another of the Ravensthorpe tragedies, and the
shadow of it lay across their minds. It was not until
they were approaching the house that the Chief
Constable spoke again.</p>

<p>“You’ve spun that yarn I gave you to the girls?”</p>

<p>“They know there was some stunt afoot,” said
Cecil, “but they were to keep out of the way, in their
rooms, until we were clear of the house.”</p>

<p>“One had to tell them something,” Sir Clinton
answered. “If one hadn’t, they’d have been pretty
uncomfortable when all that racket started. You
managed to scare him out very neatly with the row
you raised when I blew my whistle.”</p>

<p>“The girls are sitting up, waiting for us,” Cecil
explained. “They said they’d have coffee ready when
we came back.”</p>

<p>“The deuce they did!”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton was obviously put out.</p>

<p>“I’d been counting on their going back to bed
again. Then we could have got Marden’s body away
quietly—if he’s been murdered, as I think he has.
There’s no use upsetting people if you can avoid it.
Ravensthorpe’s had its fill of sensations lately and
there’s no need to add another to-night.”</p>

<p>He reflected as he walked on, and at last he seemed
to hit on an expedient to suit the circumstances.</p>

<p>“The bottom’s out of this case now,” he said, at
last. “There’ll be no trial; so there’s no need for
any more secrecy, so far as I can see. I’ll be giving
nothing away that I shouldn’t, at this stage of the
game.”</p>

<p>He threw away the end of his cigarette and looked
up at the bulk of Ravensthorpe before them. Here
and there on the dark front the yellow oblong of a
window shone out in the night.</p>

<p>“Suppose I spin them a yarn,” Sir Clinton went on.
“I can keep them up until dawn with it. After that,
they’ll sleep sound enough; and while they’re asleep,
we’ll get Marden’s body away in peace and comfort.
It’ll spare them the shock of finding another corpse
on the premises; and that’s always something
gained.”</p>

<p>When they reached Ravensthorpe, Sir Clinton
turned to Cecil.</p>

<p>“You’d better go and close the safe in the museum.
No use leaving things like that open any longer than’s
necessary. I must go up to Marden’s room now. I’ll
be back again in a minute or two.”</p>

<p>Ascending the servants’ staircase, Sir Clinton made
his way to the valet’s room. The door was locked;
but when Sir Clinton tapped gently, a constable
opened it and looked out. At the sight of the Chief
Constable, he stood aside.</p>

<p>“He’s been murdered, sir,” the man explained in a
whisper.</p>

<p>“I guessed it might be that,” Sir Clinton returned.</p>

<p>“Whoever did it must have chloroformed him
first,” the constable went on. “There was a pad of
cotton-wool over his face; and his throat’s cut.”</p>

<p>The Chief Constable nodded in comprehension.</p>

<p>“That would prevent any sounds,” he said.
“Brackley was a first-class planner, there’s no
doubt.”</p>

<p>The constable continued his explanation.</p>

<p>“We came up here as you told us, sir; and when
we heard your whistle we slipped into the room,
expecting to arrest him according to your orders. But
he was dead by that time. It was quite clear that
he’d been murdered only a short time before. Your
orders didn’t cover the case, so we thought the best
thing to do was to lock the door and wait till you
came back. You’d said we were to keep him here till
your return, anyhow; so that seemed to be the best
course.”</p>

<p>“Quite correct,” Sir Clinton commended them.
“You couldn’t have done better. Now you’ll need to
wait here till morning. Keep the door locked, and
don’t let any word of this affair get abroad. I’ll see
about removing the body in due course. Until then,
I don’t want any alarm on the subject.”</p>

<p>He stepped across the room, examined the body on
the bed, and then, with a nod to the constables, he
went downstairs once more.</p>

</div>

<hr class="x-ebookmaker-drop"/>

<div class="chapter" id="ch15">

<h2>CHAPTER XV. <br/> Sir Clinton’s Solution</h2>

<p>“It’s a pleasure to meet Sir Clinton again,” Joan
observed when they had finished their coffee. “For
the last ten days or so, I’ve been dealing with a man
they call the Chief Constable. I don’t much care
for him. These beetle-browed officials are not my
sort. Too stiff and overbearing for me, altogether.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton laughed at the hit.</p>

<p>“Sorry,” he said. “I’ve invited one of your aversions
to join us. In fact, I think I hear him at the
door now.”</p>

<p>“Inspector Armadale?” Joan demanded. “Well,
I’ve nothing against him. You never let him get a
word in edgeways at our interviews. Grasping, I
call it.”</p>

<p>The door opened and the Inspector was ushered
in. As he entered, a glance passed between him and
Sir Clinton. In reply, Armadale made a furtive
gesture which escaped the rest of the company.</p>

<p>“Passed in his checks,” Sir Clinton interpreted it
to himself. “That clears the road.”</p>

<p>Joan poured out coffee for the Inspector and then
turned to the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“Cecil promised that you’d tell us all about everything.
Don’t linger over it. We’re all in quite good
listening form and we look to you not to be boring.
Proceed.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton refused to be disconcerted.</p>

<p>“Inspector Armadale’s the last authority on the
subject,” he remarked. “He’s got the confession of
the master mind in his pocket. I haven’t seen it yet.
Suppose I give you my account of things, and the
Inspector will check it for us where necessary? That
seems a fair division of labour.”</p>

<p>“Very fair,” Una Rainhill put in. “Now, Joan, be
quiet and let’s get on with the tale.”</p>

<p>“Before the curtain goes up,” Sir Clinton
suggested, “you’d better read your programmes. First
of all you find the name of Thomas Pailton, <i>alias</i>
Cocoa Tom, <i>alias</i>, J. B. Foss, <i>alias</i> The Wizard of
Woz: a retired conjurer, gaolbird, confidence-trick
sharp, etc. As I read his psychology, he was rather a
weak character and not over straight even in dealing
with his equals. In the present play, he was acting
under the orders of a gentleman of much tougher
fibre.</p>

<p>“The next name on the programme is Thomas
Marden. The police have no records of his early
doings, but I suspect that Mr. Marden had cause to
bless his luck in this respect, rather than his honesty.
I’m sure he wasn’t a prentice hand. As to his
character, I believe he was rather a violent person when
roused, and he had a deplorable lack of control over
a rather bad temper.</p>

<p>“The third name is . . . ?”</p>

<p>“Stephen Racks,” the Inspector supplied in answer
to Sir Clinton’s glance of inquiry.</p>

<p>“<i>Alias</i> Joe Brackley,” Sir Clinton continued. “I
think we’ll call him Brackley, since that was the
name you knew him by, if you knew him at all. He
was nominally Foss’s chauffeur. Actually, I think, he
was the brain of the gang and did the planning for
them.”</p>

<p>“That’s correct,” the Inspector interpolated.</p>

<p>“Mr. Brackley, I think, was the most deliberately
unscrupulous of them all,” Sir Clinton continued. “A
really dangerous person who would stick at nothing
to get what he wanted or to cover his tracks.</p>

<p>“Then, last of all, there’s a Mr. Blank, whose
name I do not know, but who at present is under
arrest in America for forging the name of Mr.
Kessock the millionaire. He was employed by Mr.
Kessock in some capacity or other which gave him
access to Mr. Kessock’s correspondence. I’ve no
details on that point as yet.”</p>

<p>“This is the kind of stuff I always skip when I’m
reading a detective story,” complained Joan. “Can’t
you get along to something interesting soon?”</p>

<p>“You’re like the Bellman in the ‘Hunting of the
Snark,’ Joan. ‘Oh, skip your dear uncle!’ Well, I
skip, as you desire it. I’ll merely mention in passing
that an American tourist came here a while ago and
asked to see the Leonardo medallions, because he
was writing a book on Leonardo. He, I believe, was
Mr. Blank from America; and his job was to see the
safe in the museum and note its pattern.</p>

<p>“I must skip again; and now we reach the night of
the robbery in the museum. You know what happened
then. Mr. Foss came to me with his tale about
overhearing some of you planning a practical joke.
His story was true enough, I’ve no doubt; but it set
me thinking at once. I may not have shown it, Joan,
but I quite agreed with you about his methods. It
seemed a funny business to come straight to the
police over a thing of that sort. Of course he had his
reason ready; but it didn’t ring quite true, somehow.
I might have put it down to tactlessness, if it hadn’t
suggested something else to my mind.</p>

<p>“That pistol-shot which smashed the lamp was too
neatly timed for my taste. It was fired by some one
who knew precisely when the keeper was going to
be gripped, and it was fired just in time to get ahead
of Foxton Polegate in the raid on the show-case.
That meant, if it meant anything, that the man who
fired the shot was a person who knew of the practical
joke. But on the face of it, Foss was the only person
who knew about the joke, bar the jokers themselves.
So naturally I began to suspect Foss of having a
hand in the business. It was the usual mistake of the
criminal—trying to be too clever and throw suspicion
on to some one else.</p>

<p>“Now Foss wasn’t the man in white, obviously;
for he came to see me while the man-hunt was still
in full cry. So at that stage in the business I was
fairly certain that at least two people were in the
game: Foss and some one else, who was the man in
white. That looked like either the valet or the
chauffeur, since they were the only people I knew about
who were directly associated with Foss while he was
here. But this incognito business at the masked ball
had made it possible for outsiders to come in
unrecognized; so the man in white might be a
confederate quite outside our range of knowledge. One
couldn’t assume that either Marden or Brackley was
in the show at all.</p>

<p>“I learned, later on, that Foss had synchronized
his watch with yours, Cecil; and that, of course,
made it pretty plain that he was in the game. There
was also another bit of evidence which suggested
something. If either the valet or the chauffeur was
the confederate, then they could easily enough have
found out from the servants what costume Maurice
meant to wear that night—a few questions to his
valet would have got the information—and they
could have chosen the Pierrot costume for their own
runner in order to confuse things. That suggested
that Foss’s servants might be in the business; but it
proved nothing really. The white Pierrot costume
was chosen mainly for its conspicuousness, I’m sure.</p>

<p>“Now I come to the disappearance of the man in
white.”</p>

<p>“Thank goodness!” Joan commented. “It gets
more interesting as it goes on, doesn’t it? That’s
something to be thankful for.”</p>

<p>“One does one’s best,” Sir Clinton retorted,
unperturbed. “Now the vanishing of that fellow could
be accounted for in various ways, so far as I could
see. First of all, he might have slipped down the rope
into the little lake. That was what the rope was meant
to suggest, obviously. But unfortunately one of the
hunters had the wit to keep an eye on the lake; and
it was pretty clear the man in white didn’t go that
way. Then there was the possibility of his being
concealed in the cave; but that was ruled out by the
search of the cave. Thirdly, the gang might have hit
on the opening of one of the secret passages of
Ravensthorpe. Candidly, I ruled that out also. It
seemed next door to impossible. But if you exclude
all these ways, then there seem to be only two
possibilities left. The first of these depends on the man
in white having a confederate in the cordon who let
him slip through. But the chance of a slip-through
of that sort escaping the notice of the rest of the
hunters seemed very small. It seemed to me too risky
a business for them to have tried.</p>

<p>“The final possibility was that the fugitive disguised
himself as something else. Well, what disguise
would be the best? It’s a question of camouflage, and
they had only a few seconds to do the camouflaging.
You can’t dress up as a drain-pipe or a garden-seat
in a couple of seconds. So we come down to something
that’s human in shape but isn’t really human.
In a garden, you might pretend to be a scarecrow;
but up on that terrace a scarecrow was out of the
question. And then I remembered the statues.</p>

<p>“Suppose somebody had gone up there in the evening
and had chiselled one of the statues off its base.
The broken marble could be heaved over into the
little lake and the bare pedestal would be left for the
fugitive.”</p>

<p>“I ought to have thought of that,” Michael interjected.
“It’s so obvious when you think of it. But I
didn’t think of anything like that at the time.”</p>

<p>“My impression then,” Sir Clinton continued, “was
that the man in white had white tights on under his
Pierrot dress. His face and hands were whitened,
also; so that as soon as he stripped off his jacket and
trousers, he was sufficiently statuelike to pass muster
in that light. His eyes would have given him away in
daylight; but under the moon he’d only got to shut
them and you’d hardly notice his whitened eyelashes.
In the few moments that you left him, while the
cordon was being formed, he took off his Pierrot
things, wrapped them round the weight he’d used in
breaking the case’s glass, and pitched the lot over
the balustrade. That would account for the splash
that was heard.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton paused to light a cigarette.</p>

<p>“That theory seemed to fit most of the evidence, as
you see. It explained why they’d chosen that
particular place for the disappearing trick; and it
accounted for the splash as well. Further, it suggested
that there was a third man in the gang: the man who
smashed down the real statue. They’d leave that bit
of work to the last moment for fear of the damage
being seen accidentally beforehand. Now Foss was
at the masked ball, so it wasn’t he. The man in white
might need all his powers in that race, so it was
unlikely that he’d been up there on a heavy bit of
manual labour just then, for the shifting of that
statue, even in pieces, can have been no light affair.
That suggested the use of a third confederate. But
I’m no wild enthusiast for theories. I simply noted
the coincidence that this theory demanded three men
and that Foss’s party contained three men: himself,
the valet, and the chauffeur.</p>

<p>“Now, for reasons which I’ll give you immediately,
it seemed likely that this affair was only a first step in
a more complicated plan. On the spur of the moment,
I decided it was worth while taking a hand. So I got
a patrol set round the spinney and issued orders that
no one was to go up to the terrace until I’d been over
the ground. I took good care that every one knew
about this; and I took equally good care not to go
there myself. I rather advertised the thing, in fact.
That was to assure the fellows that no one had seen
the empty pedestal. They were pretty certain to rout
about for information; and they’d hear on all sides
that no one had been up to the terrace. That left the
thing open for them to try again if they wanted to.</p>

<p>“Another thing confirmed my notions. When the
Inspector was dragging the lake, he got a largish
piece of marble out of it. That fitted in with the view
that the broken statue was down in the water in
fragments, hidden by the weeds. It all fitted fairly well,
you see.</p>

<p>“Then came another bit of evidence—two bits, in
fact. The village drunkard put abroad some yarn
about seeing a White Man in the woods; and a little
girl saw a Black Man. That might have been mere
fancy. Or it might have been true enough. When
the hunters had gone, the pseudo-statue would come
down off his pedestal. Suppose he wandered off into
the wood and was seen by old Groby. There’s your
White Man. But he couldn’t possibly get back to the
house in white tights. He’d want to get in as quietly
as possible. What about a set of black tights under
the white ones? When he took off the white ones,
he’d be next door to invisible among shadows; and
he’d be able to sneak in through a window in the
servants’ wing—in the shadow of the house—fairly
inconspicuously. Perhaps that’s how it happened.”</p>

<p>“That was it,” the Inspector confirmed, looking up
from a sheet of paper which he was consulting from
time to time.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acknowledged the confirmation but
refused to lay much stress on the point.</p>

<p>“I thought it possible,” he said, “but it was merely
a guess. In itself the evidence wasn’t worth anything;
but it fitted well enough into the hypothesis I’d
made.”</p>

<p>He turned to the Inspector.</p>

<p>“Did you get the five medallions as I expected?”</p>

<p>Armadale put his hand into his pocket and withdrew
the five discs of gold, which he handed over to
the Chief Constable. Sir Clinton took the sixth
medallion from his own pocket and laid the whole set on
the table beside him.</p>

<p>“They say,” he went on, “that the more <i>outré</i> a
crime is, the easier it is to find a solution for it. I
shouldn’t like to assert that in every case. But there’s
no harm in paying especial attention to the bizarre
points in an affair. If you cast your minds back to
the case as it presented itself to us on the night of the
masked ball, you’ll recall one point which
undoubtedly seemed out of the common.”</p>

<p>He glanced round the circle of listeners, but no
one ventured to interrupt.</p>

<p>“Here was a gang of thieves bent on stealing
something. One of them—Foss—knew that in the show-case
there were three medallions and three replicas.
The medallions were of enormous value; the replicas
were worth next to nothing. Foss, I was sure—and it
turned out afterwards that I was right—Foss knew
that the real medallions were in the top row and that
the replicas were in the lower row.”</p>

<p>He arranged the six discs on the table as he spoke.</p>

<p>“And yet, with that knowledge, it was the replicas
which they stole and not the real medallions. Amazing,
at first sight, isn’t it? To my mind it was much
more bizarre than the vanishing trick. And, naturally,
it was on that point in the case that I fixed my
attention. These weren’t blunderers, remember. The
rest of the business showed that they were anything
but that. The way they had seized upon that practical
joke to serve their ends was quite enough to
prove that there was a good brain at the back of the
thing. That joke wasn’t in their original programme,
and yet they’d taken it in their stride and turned it
to account in a most ingenious way. They weren’t the
sort of people who would make a mistake about the
positions of the replicas. If they took the electrotypes
instead of the real things, it was because the
electrotypes were what they wanted.</p>

<p>“Why did they want them? That question seemed
to thrust itself forward in front of all the others
which suggested themselves in the case; and it was
that question that had to be answered before one
could see light anywhere.”</p>

<p>He leaned forward in his chair and glanced at the
two rows of medallions on the table before him for a
moment.</p>

<p>“If one thinks about a point long enough, it often
happens that all of a sudden a fresh idea turns up
and fits into its place. I think it was probably the
notion of the pseudo-statue that put me on to this
affair. There you had a fraud imposing itself on some
people simply because they had no reason to suppose
that any fraud was intended. I doubt if any of you
people, Mr. Clifton, gave a second glance at these
statues that night. You simply regarded them as
statues, because you knew that statues were on all
the pedestals in normal circumstances. You were off
your guard on that particular point.</p>

<p>“That idea seemed to give me the key to this
mysterious preference for replicas. If they’d taken
the real medallions that night, with all the fuss that
was made, then you Ravensthorpe people would have
known at once that the true Leonardos had gone;
and, naturally, with the theft of them dated to a
minute, the risk was considerable. But suppose that
the theft of the replicas was only the first stage in
the game, what then? They had the replicas; you had
the real medallions. Foss, as the agent for Kessock,
had every excuse for asking to see the medallions
again.</p>

<p>“Now at that point there would come in the very
same subconscious assurance that played into their
hands in the case of the statue. Maurice would know
for certain that the three things in his safe were the
real Leonardos. He’d fish them out for Foss to
examine; and he’d put them back in the safe without
any minute inspection when Foss handed them over.
The replicas would be off the board—lost, gone for
good. He’d never think of them.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced mischievously at Joan before
continuing.</p>

<p>“As it happens, I can do a little parlour conjuring
myself. It comes in handy when one has to live up to
the part of Prospero or anything like that. I know
what one can do in the way of palming things, and
so forth. And as soon as I hit on this idea of the case,
I saw how things might be managed. Foss would fake
up some excuse for handling the real medallions; and
during that handling, he’d substitute the replicas for
the Leonardos. Maurice, having apparently had the
things under his eyes all the time, would never think
of examining the medals which he got back from
Foss’s hands. He’d simply put them back into the
safe. Foss would have the real things in his pocket;
the deal would fall through; Foss &amp; Co. would retire
gracefully . . . and it was a hundred to one that no
minute examination of the medallions in the safe
would be made for long enough. By that time
it would be impossible either to find Foss or to
bring the thing home to him even if you did find
him.</p>

<p>“You see the advantages? First of all, the only
theft would be one of the replicas, which no one cared
much about. Second, the date of the real theft would
be left doubtful. And third, this plan gave them any
amount of time to dispose of the real things before
any suspicions were aroused at all, as regards the
genuine Leonardos. My impression is that they had
a market for them: some scoundrelly collector who’d
pay high to have the Leonardos even if he couldn’t
boast publicly that he had them.”</p>

<p>“That’s correct, sir,” the Inspector interposed.
“Brackley had a market, but he wouldn’t tell me who
the collector was.”</p>

<p>Joan rose from her chair, crossed the room to a
small table, and solemnly came back with a tray.</p>

<p>“Have some whisky and soda,” she suggested to
Sir Clinton.</p>

<p>“You find the tale rather dry?” he inquired
solicitously. “Life’s like that, you know. Inspector
Armadale really needs this more than I do. He’s
been a long time out in the cold up yonder. I’ll take
some later on, if you don’t mind.”</p>

<p>Joan presented the tray to the Inspector, who
helped himself.</p>

<p>Sir Clinton waited till he was finished with the
siphon and then continued, addressing himself to
Joan:</p>

<p>“Perhaps the story has lacked feminine interest
up to this point. We’ll hurry on to the day when you,
Maurice, and Foss had your talk on the terrace.
Down below was Foss’s motor, serving two purposes.
It was there if they had to make a bolt, should things
go wrong. It also allowed the chauffeur, making a
fake repair, to watch what went on in the museum. I
gather that he meant to keep an eye on his
confederates.</p>

<p>“At that moment, Foss had the three replicas in his
pocket; and he was looking for some excuse to carry
out the exchange. He led the conversation on to
Japanese swords and so forth. I suspect Brackley
supplied the basis for that matter, enough to allow
Foss to make a show of information. Then Foss
brought up the subject of his ‘poor man’s collection’
of rubbings. I’ve no doubt he forced a card there—induced
Maurice to offer to let him take rubbings of
the medallions. That would be child’s play to an
ex-conjurer with a smart tongue. He got his way,
anyhow.</p>

<p>“But then came a complication he hadn’t expected.
You, Joan, got interested in this taking of rubbings.
I admit it was hard lines on the poor fellow. It was
the last thing he could have anticipated.”</p>

<p>“Thanks for the compliment!” Joan interjected,
ironically.</p>

<p>“Well, it wasn’t in the plan, anyhow,” Sir Clinton
went on. “It meant an extra pair of eyes to deceive
when the exchange was made; and as the exchange
was the crucial move in the whole scheme, your
company—strange to say—was not appreciated. In fact,
you made Mr. Foss nervous. He wasn’t quite as cool
as he could have wished; and my reading of the
situation is that he bungled his first attempt at the
substitution and had to prolong the agony by
pretending to take a second rubbing of the first
medallion he got into his hands.</p>

<p>“He had more luck with his second attempt, even
with your eagle eyes on him; and he stowed away
Medallion Number One in one of the special concealed
pockets which he had in his clothes. But he
desired intensely to be relieved of your company; and
he proceeded to draw your attention to some one calling
you. Of course that voice existed solely in his own
imagination. But it was quite as effective as a real
voice in getting you to leave the museum; and then
there was one onlooker the less to bother him in his
sleight-of-hand.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton paused to light a cigarette before
continuing. Inspector Armadale, laying down his paper,
turned to the Chief Constable as though expecting at
this point to hear something which he did not already
know.</p>

<p>“The next stage is one of pure conjecture,” Sir
Clinton went on. “Foss is dead, and I haven’t had
any opportunity of interrogating the other actor:
Marden.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale smiled grimly at the way in
which the Chief Constable evaded any reference to
the valet’s murder.</p>

<p>“Possibly Inspector Armadale has a note or two on
the matter,” Sir Clinton pursued, “but even if he has,
it can only be something like ‘what the soldier said,’
for Brackley could have merely second-hand evidence
at the best. Take the case as the Inspector and
I found it. Foss was dead, stabbed with the
Muramasa sword. On its handle we found the finger-prints
of Maurice, and no others. Under Foss’s body
we found an undischarged automatic pistol with his
finger-prints on the butt. We noticed curious pockets
in Foss’s clothes; but they were empty. And we found
no trace of any of the medallions about the place.
Maurice was <i>non est inventus</i>—we could see no sign
of him. Marden had cut his hand in a fall against
one of the cases. He’d wrapped it up with his
handkerchief in a rough sort of way. The case containing
the Muramasa sword was open, and the sheath was
lying in it, empty, of course.</p>

<p>“It’s only fair to Inspector Armadale to tell you
that he suspected Marden immediately. What I’m
going to give you is merely the case as it presented
itself to me.”</p>

<p>Armadale looked slightly flustered by this tribute
to his perspicacity. He glanced suspiciously at the
Chief Constable, but Sir Clinton’s face betrayed no
ironical intention.</p>

<p>“He may be pulling my leg again,” the Inspector
reflected, “but at least it’s decent of him to go out
of his way to say that. It’s true enough, but not
exactly in the way that they’ll understand it.”</p>

<p>“Marden had a very complete story to tell us. He’d
come to the door of the museum with a parcel which
Foss had sent him to post. He’d found the address
was incomplete and came back to get Foss to finish
it. He stayed outside the door and he heard a quarrel
between Maurice and Foss, ending in a struggle.
When he burst into the room, Maurice was disappearing
at the other end and Foss was dead on the
floor. Then Marden slipped on the parquet, fell
against a show-case, cut his hand, and tied it up in his
handkerchief. Then he gave the alarm.</p>

<p>“The parcel with the incomplete address was the
first thing that interested me. We opened it and we
found in it a cheap wrist-watch in perfect condition,
apparently. The Inspector tried it for finger-prints.
There weren’t any of any sort, either on the watch or
the box in which it was enclosed. That seemed a bit
rum to us both.</p>

<p>“The only thing that seemed to fit the case was
this. Suppose Marden wanted to keep an eye on Foss.
This parcel would give him an excuse of bursting in
on his employer at any moment. Assume that
Marden himself had made up the parcel and that
Foss had nothing to do with it. It was wrapped up
in paper on which the address was written. You
know how one writes on a parcel—not the least like
one’s normal handwriting if the paper is crumpled
a bit in the wrapping-up. That would make a bit of
rough forgery of Foss’s writing fairly easy. Further,
if by any chance the parcel fell into the hands of the
police—as actually happened—there was nothing inside
to show that Foss hadn’t wrapped it up himself.
Nobody else’s finger-marks were on it at all. It had
been wrapped up with gloved hands. And the contents
were innocent enough: only a watch being sent to a
watch-maker to be regulated, perhaps. If it had been
a letter, then to carry the thing through properly
they’d have had to forge Foss’s writing all the way
through, in order to make it look genuine if it
happened to be opened.</p>

<p>“But if that theory were adopted, a lot followed
from it. First and foremost, it meant that Marden
was the boss and his nominal employer was an
underling in the gang, who would have to back up any
story that Marden liked to tell. Secondly, it pointed
to the fact that Marden didn’t trust Foss much. He
wanted an excuse to get at Foss at any moment—which
is hardly in the power of a simple valet. When
he thought Foss needed watching, all he had to do
was to trot up with his little parcel, just to let Foss
see that he was under observation. Thirdly, this
dodge was worked at a crucial stage in the
game—when the replicas were being exchanged for the
Leonardo medallions. Doesn’t that suggest that
Marden didn’t trust Foss very much? It looks as if
Marden was none too sure that he’d get a square
deal from Foss once the real medallions had changed
hands. Am I right in my guesses, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“They didn’t trust Foss to play straight, sir.
Brackley was quite open about that.”</p>

<p>“And it was Brackley’s idea? The parcel, I mean.
It looks as if it came from his mint.”</p>

<p>“He said so, sir. Foss knew nothing about it, of
course. It was a surprise for him. They knew he’d
have to pretend he knew all about it when Marden
brought it to him.”</p>

<p>“That finishes the parcel,” Sir Clinton continued.
“But it had suggested one or two things, as you see.
The most important thing, from my point of view,
was that this gang was not exactly a band of brothers.
Two of them suspected the third. Possibly the split
was even more extensive.</p>

<p>“The next thing was the valet’s story. According
to him, Maurice stabbed Foss, after a quarrel which
Marden couldn’t overhear clearly. Unfortunately for
that tale, the blow that killed Foss was a powerful
one. What Marden didn’t know was that Maurice
had sprained his wrist that morning. I doubt if a
sprained wrist could have achieved that stab. There
was no proof, of course; but it seemed just a little
doubtful. Then Marden said that from the door he
couldn’t catch the words of the quarrel, although the
voices were angry in tone. I tried the experiment
myself later; and it’s perfectly easy to overhear
what’s said in the museum from the position Marden
said he was in. So that was a deliberate lie. On that
basis, one could eliminate most of Marden’s tale as
being under suspicion.</p>

<p>“What really happened in the museum? Maurice
is gone, Foss is dead, Marden won’t tell. One has
just to reconstruct the thing as plausibly as one can.
My impression—it’s only conjecture—is this. Marden
was listening at the door and he could see some
parts of the room, since the door was ajar. Foss had
succeeded in substituting one replica for a real
medallion. To get Maurice’s eye off him, he asked to see
the Muramasa sword. Maurice went to get it, leaving
Foss at his rubbing—visible to Maurice all the time.
Foss made the exchange of the second replica at that
moment. Maurice came back with the Muramasa
sword—and of course in doing that, he put his
finger-prints on the handle in drawing the blade from
the sheath. Marden, at the door, saw him do this
and made a note of it. Just as Maurice came back to
Foss, he was suddenly taken ill. He had the third real
medallion in one hand; and as he passed Foss he
picked up the two replicas—which he believed to be
the other two real medallions. He went to the safe
and hurriedly put on a shelf the two replicas; but the
other medallion, in his other hand, he forgot all
about. He shut the safe and staggered into the secret
passage.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale looked frankly incredulous.</p>

<p>“Do people take ill all of a sudden like that?” he
demanded. “Why should he want to rush off all at
once?”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton swung round on him.</p>

<p>“Ever suffered from rheumatism, Inspector? Or
neuralgia? Or toothache?”</p>

<p>“No,” the Inspector replied with all the pride of
perfect health. “I’ve never had rheumatism and I’ve
never had a tooth go wrong in my life.”</p>

<p>“No wonder you can’t understand, then,” Sir
Clinton retorted. “Wait till you have neuralgia in
the fifth nerve, Inspector. Then, if you don’t know
yourself that you’re unfit for human society, your
friends will tell you, soon enough. If you get a bad
attack, it’s maddening—nothing less. Men have
suicided on account of it often enough,” he added,
with a meaning glance at Armadale.</p>

<p>A light broke in on the Inspector’s mind.</p>

<p>“So that was it? No wonder I couldn’t put two
and two together!” he reflected to himself; but he
made no audible comment.</p>

<p>“Now we come to a mere leap in the dark,” Sir
Clinton continued. “I believe that as soon as Maurice
was out of the way, Marden went into the museum
and demanded the medallions from Foss.”</p>

<p>He put down his cigarette and leaned back in his
chair. When he spoke again, a faint tinge of pity
seemed to come into his voice.</p>

<p>“Foss was a poor little creature, hardly better than
a rabbit in the big jungle of crime. And the other two
were something quite different: carnivores, beasts
of prey. They’d picked him out simply on account of
his one miserable talent: his little trick of
legerdemain. He was only a tool, poor beggar, and he knew
it. I expect that when he saw what sort of company
he’d fallen into, he was terrified. That would account
for the pistol he carried.</p>

<p>“His only chance of a fair deal from them lay in
the fact that he had the real medallions in his
possession; and he meant to hold on to them. And when
Marden demanded them, Foss revolted. It must have
been like the revolt of a rabbit against a stoat. He
hadn’t a chance. He pulled out his pistol, I expect;
and when that appeared, Marden saw red.</p>

<p>“But Marden, even in a fury, was a person with a
very keen mind. Perhaps he’d thought the thing over
beforehand. He was evidently one of these sub-human
creatures with no respect for human life—the
things they label Apaches in Paris. When the pistol
came out he was ready for it. Foss, I’m sure,
brandished the thing in an amateurish fashion—he wasn’t
a gunman of any sort. Probably he imagined that the
mere sight of the thing would bring Marden to heel.</p>

<p>“Marden had his handkerchief out at once. Probably
he had it ready in his hand. He picked up the
Muramasa sword, leaving no finger-marks of his own
on it through the handkerchief. And . . . that was
the end of Foss.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton leaned over, selected a fresh cigarette
with a certain fastidiousness, and lighted it before
going on with his tale.</p>

<p>“That was the end of his feeble little attempt to get
the better of his confederate. The money in his
pocket-book didn’t give him the escape he’d hoped
for. All his precautions to leave no clues to his real
identity played straight into the hands of Marden
and Brackley.</p>

<p>“Marden’s immediate problem, once he’d come out
of his fury, was difficult enough. I suspect that his
first move was to search Foss and get the medallions
out of his pockets. Then he was faced with the blood
on his hands and on his handkerchief. He had his
plan made almost in a moment. He went across,
deliberately slipped—he was an artist in detail,
evidently—smashed against the glass of one of the cases,
cut his hand, and then he felt fairly secure. He
wrapped up the wounds in his handkerchief—and
there was the case complete to account for any stray
blood anywhere on his clothes. He tried the safe, for
fear Maurice was lurking inside; and then he gave
the alarm.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton glanced inquiringly at the Inspector,
but Armadale shook his head.</p>

<p>“Brackley had nothing to say about all that, sir.
Marden gave him no details.”</p>

<p>“It’s mostly guess-work,” Sir Clinton warned his
audience. “All that one can say for it is that it fits
the facts fairly well.”</p>

<p>“And is that brute in the house now?” Una Rainhill
demanded. “I shan’t go to sleep if he is.”</p>

<p>“Two constables were detached to arrest him,” Sir
Clinton assured her. “He’s not on the premises, you
may count on that.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale’s face took on a wooden expression,
the result of suppressing a sardonic smile.</p>

<p>“Well, he does manage to tell the truth and convey
a wrong impression with it,” he commented inwardly.</p>

<p>“Now consider the state of affairs after the Foss
murder,” Sir Clinton went on. “Marden and Brackley
were in a pretty pickle, it seems to me. They had
three medallions which Marden had got when he
rifled Foss’s body. But <em>they didn’t know what they’d
got</em>. They weren’t in the secret of the dots on the
replicas. For all they knew—knew for certain, I
mean—Foss might have bungled the affair and the
things they had might be merely replicas. If so,
they were no good. I can’t tell the difference between
a medallion and an electrotype myself; but I believe
an expert can tell you whether a thing’s been struck
with a die or merely plated from a mould. These
two scoundrels, I take it, weren’t experts. They
couldn’t tell which brand of article they had in their
hands.</p>

<p>“There was only one thing to be done. They’d
have to get the whole six things into their hands, and
then they’d be sure of having the three medallions. So
they fell back on their original scheme of plain
burglary. That, I’m sure, had been their first plan.
They’d sent their American confederate to see the
safe a long while ago; and no doubt he’d reported
that it was an old pattern. Hence the otophone, by
means of which they could pick the combination lock.
The otophone was still on the premises: I’d left it for
them. But they were up against one thing.</p>

<p>“I’d put a guard night and day on the museum.
That blocked any attempt at burglary unless they
were prepared to take the tremendous risk of
manhandling the guard. If the door had merely been
locked, I don’t think it would have given them much
trouble. I’m pretty sure there’s a very good outfit of
burglar’s tools mixed up with the tool-kit of the car,
where it would attract no attention. But the guard
was a difficulty in the way.”</p>

<p>Without making it obvious to the others, Sir Clinton
made it clear to Armadale that the next part of
his story was meant specially for the Inspector.</p>

<p>“I’d given you the view I held of the case at that
point. I felt fairly certain I was right. But if I’d
been asked to put that case before a jury, I certainly
would have backed out. It was mostly surmise:
accurate enough, perhaps, but with far too little
support. A jury—quite rightly—wants facts and not
theories. Could one even convince them that the
vanishing trick had been carried through as I
believed it had? It would have been a bit of a
gamble. And I don’t believe in that sort of gamble. I
wanted the thing proved up to the hilt. And the
best way to do that was to catch them actually at
work.</p>

<p>“There seemed to me just one weak point in the
armour. I counted on a split between the two remaining
confederates, if I could only get a wedge in
somehow. I guessed, rightly or wrongly, that the Foss
murder would strike the chauffeur as a blunder, and
that there might be the makings of friction there. The
chauffeur’s watching the museum under cover of the
fake repair to the hood suggested that he mistrusted
the others. I suspected that Marden might have
stuck to the stuff he’d taken off Foss’s body. If
Brackley hadn’t got his share of that swag, he’d be in
a weak position. I gambled on that: everything to
gain and nothing much to lose. I had the chauffeur
up for examination again; and when I gave him an
opening, he deliberately gave his friend away by
letting me know he’d seen Marden and Foss together
just before the murder. And when he did that, I
blurted out to Inspector Armadale that the guards on
the terrace and the museum door were to be discontinued.
Brackley went off with those two bits of exclusive
information. He didn’t tell them to Marden.
He saw his way to make the balance even between
himself and his confederate. If he kept his news to
himself, he could burgle the museum safe; get the
remainder of the six medallions; and then he’d be
sure of getting his share of the profits. Neither of
them could do without the other in that case.</p>

<p>“In actual practice, Brackley went a stage farther
than I’d anticipated. He schemed to get Marden’s
loot as well as the stuff from the safe. I needn’t go
into that side-issue.”</p>

<p>Again Inspector Armadale suppressed his amusement
at the way in which Sir Clinton chose to present
the truth.</p>

<p>“The rest of the tale’s short enough,” Sir Clinton
went on. “Brackley determined to burgle the safe.
If pursued, he decided, he’d repeat the vanishing
trick on the terrace; for I’d convinced him, apparently,
that the <i>modus operandi</i> of it was still unknown
to us. Probably he went up there and satisfied
himself that no one came near, after the patrol was
taken off. He got himself up for the part: whitened
his face; put on white tights; covered himself with
Marden’s waterproof as a disguise and to conceal his
fancy dress; put on a big black mask to hide the
paint on his face, lest he should give the show away if
an interruption came. And so he walked straight into
the trap I’d laid for him.</p>

<p>“We saw the whole show from start to finish. I
even let Cecil and Mr. Clifton into the business, so
that we’d have some evidence apart from police
witnesses. We saw the whole show from start to finish.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton broke off his story and glanced at his
watch.</p>

<p>“We’ve kept Inspector Armadale up to a most
unconscionable hour,” he said, apologetically. “We
really mustn’t detain him till sunrise. Before you go,
Inspector, you might tell us if my solution fits the
confession you got out of Brackley—in the later
stages, I mean.”</p>

<p>Inspector Armadale saw his dismissal and rose to
his feet.</p>

<p>“There’s really nothing in the confession that
doesn’t tally, sir. Differences in detail, of course; but
you were right in the main outlines of the affair.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed a faint satisfaction.</p>

<p>“Well, it’s satisfactory enough to hear that. By
the way, Inspector, you’d better take my car. It’s in
the avenue still. Send a man up with it, please, when
you’ve done with it. There’s no need for you to walk
after a night like this.”</p>

<p>Armadale thanked him; declined Cecil’s offer of
another whisky and soda; and took his departure.
When he had gone, Cecil threw a glance of inquiry at
the Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“Do you feel inclined to tell us what you made of
my doings? I noticed that you didn’t drag them out
in front of the Inspector.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced in the suggestion.</p>

<p>“I think that’s fairly plain sailing; but correct me
if I go wrong. When you heard of Maurice’s
disappearance, you saw that something was very far amiss.
You had a fair idea where he might be, but you
didn’t want to advertise the Ravensthorpe secrets.
So you came back one night and went down there.
I don’t know whether you were surprised or not
when you found him; but in any case, you decided
that there was no good giving the newspapers a titbit
about secret passages. So you took him out into the
glade by the other entrance to the tunnel; and then
you came up to Ravensthorpe as though you’d come
by the first train. The Inspector tripped you over
that point, but it didn’t matter much. He doesn’t
love you, though, I suspect. I’d no desire to make
matters worse by interfering between you; for you
seemed able to look after yourself. Wasn’t that the
state of affairs?”</p>

<p>“There or thereabouts,” Cecil admitted. “It
seemed the best thing to do, in the circumstances.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton showed obvious distaste for discussing
the matter further. He turned to the girls.</p>

<p>“It’s high time you children were in bed. Dawn’s
well up in the sky. You’ve had all the excitement you
need, for the present; and a good sleep seems
indicated.”</p>

<p>He gave a faint imitation of a stifled yawn.</p>

<p>“That sets me off,” said Una Rainhill, frankly. “I
can hardly keep my eyes open. Come along, Joan.
It’s quite bright outside and I’m not afraid to go to
bed now.”</p>

<p>Joan rubbed her eyes.</p>

<p>“This sort of thing takes more out of one than
twenty dances,” she admitted. “The beginning of the
night was a bit too exciting for everyday use. How
does one say ‘Good-night’ in proper form when the
sun’s over the horizon? I give it up.”</p>

<p>With a gesture of farewell, she made her way to
the door, followed by Una. When they had
disappeared, Sir Clinton turned to Cecil Chacewater.</p>

<p>“Care to walk down the avenue a little to meet my
car? The fresh air and all that. I rather like the
dawn, myself, when it happens to come my way
without too much exertion.”</p>

<p>Cecil saw that the Chief Constable was giving him
an opening if he cared to take it.</p>

<p>“I’ll come along with you till you meet the car.”</p>

<p>Sir Clinton took leave of Michael Clifton, who
obviously intended to go to bed immediately. As soon
as he was well clear of the house, Cecil turned to the
Chief Constable.</p>

<p>“You skated over thin ice several times in that
yarn of yours. Especially the bits about Maurice.
Toothache! Neuralgia! That infernal Inspector of
yours swallowed it all down like cat-lap. From his
face, you’d have thought he picked up an absolute
cert. that no one else could see. I almost laughed, at
that point.”</p>

<p>He changed suddenly to a serious tone.</p>

<p>“How did you spot what was really wrong with
Maurice?”</p>

<p>“One thing led to another,” Sir Clinton confessed.
“I didn’t hit on it all at once. The Fairy Houses set
me thinking at the start. One doesn’t keep toys like
that in good repair merely on account of some old
legend. They were quite evidently meant for use.
And then, Cecil, you seemed to have some private
joke of your own—not a particularly nice joke
either—about them. That set me thinking. And after that,
you dropped some remark about Maurice having
specialized in family curses.”</p>

<p>“You seem to have a devil of a memory for trifles,”
Cecil commented, in some surprise.</p>

<p>“Trifles sometimes count for a good deal in my
line,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “One gets into the
habit of docketing them, almost without thinking
about it. I must have pigeon-holed your talk about
the Fairy Houses quite mechanically. Then later on
I remembered that these things were dotted all over
your estate and nowhere else. On their own ground,
the Chacewaters were always within easy distance
of one or other of these affairs. Ancient family curse;
curious little buildings very handy; one brother
grinning—yes, you did grin, and nastily too—at
them, when you know he hates another brother like
poison. It was quite a pretty little problem. And
so . . .”</p>

<p>“And so?” demanded Cecil, as Sir Clinton stopped
short.</p>

<p>“And so I put it out of my mind. It wasn’t the sort
of thing I cared to think much about in connection
with Ravensthorpe,” Sir Clinton said, bluntly.
“Besides, it was no affair of mine.”</p>

<p>“And then?”</p>

<p>“Then came Michael Clifton’s story of finding
Maurice in one of these Fairy Houses. And the
details about the queer state Maurice was in when he
was found. That came up in connection with a crime;
and crimes are my business. Why does a fellow crawl
away into a place like that? Why does he resent
being dragged out of it? Why won’t he even take the
trouble to get up? These were the kind of questions
that absolutely bristled over the whole affair. One
couldn’t help getting an inkling. But that inkling
threw no light on the crime in hand, so it was no
affair of mine. I dropped it. But . . .”</p>

<p>“Yes?”</p>

<p>“Maurice wasn’t an attractive character, I’ll admit
that. I loathed the way he was going on. But I like
to look on the best side of people if I can. In my line,
one sees plenty of the other side—more than enough.
And by and by I began to see that perhaps all Maurice’s
doings could be explained, if they couldn’t be
excused. He was off his balance.”</p>

<p>“He was, poor devil,” Cecil concurred, with some
contrition in his tone.</p>

<p>“Then came the time I forced you to open the
secret passage. Your methods were the very worst
you could have chosen, Cecil. I knew perfectly well
that you hadn’t done anything to Maurice. You’re
not the fratricidal type. But you very evidently had
something that you wanted to conceal behind that
door. You were afraid of my spotting something. The
Inspector jumped to the conclusion that it was murder
you were hushing up. By that time I had a pretty
good notion that it was the Ravensthorpe family
secret. Once I saw that passage of yours, dwindling
away to almost nothing, the thing was clear enough.
With the Fairy House clue as well, the thing was
almost certain. And finally, you gave the show away
completely by what you said beside Maurice’s body.”</p>

<p>“Chuchundra, you mean?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I remembered—another of these docketed
trifles—just what Chuchundra was. He was the
muskrat that tried to make up his mind to run into
the middle of the room, but he never got there. Then
I asked you if the trouble began with A. Of course it
did. Agoraphobia. I suppose when Maurice was a
kid he had slight attacks of it—hated to move about
in an open room and preferred to sidle along by the
walls if possible. That was the start of the nickname,
wasn’t it?”</p>

<p>Cecil assented with a nod.</p>

<p>“It evidently cropped up in your family now and
again. Hence the Fairy Houses—harbours of refuge
when attacks came on. And that underground cell,
where a man could shut himself up tight and escape
the horror of open spaces.”</p>

<p>“I’d really no notion how bad it was with
Maurice,” Cecil hastened to say. “It must have been
deadly when it drove him to shoot himself.”</p>

<p>“Something beyond description, I should say,” Sir
Clinton said, gravely.</p>

<p>He glanced over the wide prospects of the park and
then raised his eyes to where great luminous clouds
were sailing in stately procession across the blue.</p>

<p>“Looks peaceful, Cecil, doesn’t it? Makes one
rather glad to be alive, when one gets into a scene
like this. And yet, to poor Maurice it was a mere
torture-chamber of nausea and torment, a horror that
drove him to burrowing into holes and crannies,
anywhere to escape from the terrors of the open sky. I
don’t suppose that we normal people can even come
near the thing in our imaginations. It’s too rum for
our minds—outside everything we know. Poor devil!
No wonder he went off the rails a bit in the end.”</p>
