<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Second Chase in the Woods</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“I’ve made all the necessary arrangements, sir,” Inspector Armadale reported to the Chief Constable on the following evening. “A dozen constables⁠—two with rubber-soled shoes⁠—and a couple of sergeants. They’re to be at the Ravensthorpe gate immediately it’s dark enough. The sergeants have the instructions; the constables don’t even know where they’re going when they leave here.”</p>
			<p>“That’s correct,” Sir Clinton confirmed. “Let’s see. That’s fourteen altogether. Less two, twelve. Plus you and myself, fourteen. I think we’ll add to our number. Nothing like being on the safe side. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater’s personally interested in the affair; I think we’ll take him in also. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clifton might reasonably claim some share in the business. That makes sixteen. You’re detaching two constables to watch that lakelet. Well, surely fourteen of us ought to be able to pick up the scoundrel without difficulty.”</p>
			<p>“You’re sure that he’ll make for the terrace over the pool, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing’s sure in this world, Inspector. But I think there’s a fair chance that he’ll make in that direction. And if he doesn’t, why, then, we can run him down wherever he goes.”</p>
			<p>“If he goes up there, we’ll have him,” the Inspector affirmed. “There’ll be no amateur bungling this time, like the last affair. I’ll see to that myself. He won’t slip through a constabulary cordon as he did when he’d only a lot of excited youngsters to deal with.”</p>
			<p>“I leave that part of the business entirely in your hands, Inspector,” the Chief Constable assured him.</p>
			<p>“What I can’t see,” the Inspector continued, with a faint querulousness in his tone, “is why you’re going about the thing in this elaborate way. Why not arrest him straight off and be done with it?”</p>
			<p>“Because there’s one little party you’ve omitted to take into your calculations, Inspector⁠—and that’s the jury. Suspicion’s not good enough for us at this stage. Criminal trials aren’t conducted on romantic lines. Everything’s got to be proved up to the hilt. Frankly, in this case, you’ve been scattering your suspicions over a fairly wide field, haven’t you?”</p>
			<p>“It’s our business to be suspicious of everybody,” the Inspector pleaded in extenuation.</p>
			<p>“Oh, within limits, within limits, Inspector. You started by suspecting Foxton Polegate; then you branched off to Marden; after that you hovered a bit round Maurice Chacewater; and at the end you were hot on Cecil Chacewater’s heels. There’s too much of the smart reader of detective stories about that. He suspects about six of the characters without having any real proof at all; and then when the criminal turns up clearly in the last chapter he says: ‘Well, that fellow was on my list of suspects.’ That style of thing’s no use in real criminal work, where you’ve got to produce evidence and not merely some vague suspicions.”</p>
			<p>“You’re a bit hard, sir,” the Inspector protested.</p>
			<p>“Well, you criticized my methods, remember. If I were to arrest the fellow just now, I doubt if I could convince a jury of his guilt. And they’d be quite right. It’s their business to be sceptical and insist on definite proof. It’s that proof that I expect to get out of tonight’s work.”</p>
			<p>“It will be very instructive for me, sir,” Inspector Armadale commented, with heavy irony.</p>
			<p>“You take things too seriously,” Sir Clinton retorted, with an evident double meaning in the phrase. “What you need, Inspector, is a touch of fantasy. You’ll get a taste of it tonight, perhaps, unless my calculations go far astray. Now I’m going to ring up <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater and make arrangements for tonight.”</p>
			<p>And with that he dismissed the Inspector.</p>
			<p>Armadale retired with a grave face; but when he closed the door behind him his expression changed considerably.</p>
			<p>“There he was, pulling my leg again, confound him!” he reflected. “A touch of fantasy, indeed! What’s he getting at now? And the worst of it is I haven’t got to the bottom of the business yet myself. He’s been quite straight in giving me all the facts. I’m sure of that. But they seem to me just a jumble. They don’t fit together anyhow. And yet he’s not the bluffing kind; he’s got it all fixed up in his mind; I’m sure of that, whether he’s right or wrong. Well, we’ll see before many hours are over.”</p>
			<p>And with reflections like these Inspector Armadale had to content himself until nightfall.</p>
			<p>As they drove up to the Ravensthorpe gates the Inspector found Sir Clinton in one of his uncommunicative moods. He seemed abstracted, and even, as the Inspector noted with faint malice, a little anxious about the business before them. When they reached the gates they found the constabulary squad awaiting them. Sir Clinton got out of the car, after running it a little way up the avenue.</p>
			<p>“Now, the first thing you’ve got to remember,” he said, addressing the squad, “is that in no circumstances are you to make the slightest noise until you hear my second whistle. You know what you’re to do? Get up behind the house at the end opposite to the servants’ wing and stay there till you get my signal. Then you’re to come out and chase the man whom the Inspector will show you. You’re not to try to catch him. Keep a hundred yards behind him all the time; but don’t lose sight of him. The Inspector will give you instructions after you’ve chased for a while. Now which of you are the two with tennis shoes?”</p>
			<p>Two constables stepped out of the ranks. Sir Clinton took them aside and gave them some special instructions.</p>
			<p>“Now, you’d better get to your places,” he said, turning to the squad again. “Remember, not a sound. I’m afraid you’ll have a long wait, but we must take things as they come.”</p>
			<p>As the squad was led off into the night, he moved over to where the Inspector was standing.</p>
			<p>“I want something out of the car,” he said. The Inspector followed him and waited while Sir Clinton switched off the headlights and the tail lamp. The Chief Constable felt in a locker and handed something to Armadale.</p>
			<p>“A pair of night-glasses, Inspector. You’ll need them. And that’s the lot. We’d better get to our position. There’s no saying when the fellow may begin his work.”</p>
			<p>Rather to the mystification of the Inspector, Sir Clinton struck across the grass instead of following the avenue up to the house. After a fairly long walk they halted under a large tree.</p>
			<p>“A touch of fantasy was what I recommended to you, Inspector. I think a little tree-climbing is indicated. Sling these glasses round your neck as I’m doing and follow on.”</p>
			<p>“Quite mad!” was the Inspector’s involuntary comment to himself. “I suppose, once we get up there, he’ll come down again and tell me I needed exercise.”</p>
			<p>He followed the Chief Constable, however; and was at last directed to a branch on which he could find a safe seat.</p>
			<p>“Think I’m demented, Inspector?” Sir Clinton demanded with the accuracy of a thought-reader. “It’s not quite so bad as that, you’ll be glad to hear. Turn your glasses through that rift in the leaves. I was at special pains to cut it yesterday evening, in preparation for you. What do you see?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector focused his glasses and scanned the scene visible through the fissure in the foliage.</p>
			<p>“The front of Ravensthorpe,” he answered.</p>
			<p>“Some windows?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Well, one of them’s the window of the museum; and this happens to be one of the few points from which you can see right into the room. If the lights were on there, you’d find that we’re looking squarely on to the door of the safe.”</p>
			<p>With this help the Inspector was able to pick out the window which evidently he was expected to watch.</p>
			<p>“It’ll be a slow business,” Sir Clinton said in a bored tone. “But one of us has got to keep an eye on that window for the next hour or two at least. We can take it in turn.”</p>
			<p>They settled down to their vigil, which proved to be a prolonged one. The Inspector found his perch upon the branch anything but comfortable; and it grew more wearisome as the time slipped past.</p>
			<p>“Fantasy!” he commented bitterly to himself as he shifted his position for the twentieth time. “Cramp’s more likely.”</p>
			<p>But at last their tenacity was rewarded. It was during one of the Inspector’s spells of watching. Suddenly the dark rectangle of the window flashed into momentary illumination and faded again.</p>
			<p>“There he is!” exclaimed the Inspector. “He’s carrying a flash-lamp.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton lifted his glasses and examined the place in his turn.</p>
			<p>“I can see him moving about in the room,” the Inspector reported excitedly. “Now he’s going over towards the safe. Can you see him, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Fairly well. What do you make of him?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector studied his quarry intently for a while.</p>
			<p>“That’s the otophone, isn’t it, sir? I can’t see his face; it seems as if he’d blackened it.⁠ ⁠… No, he’s wearing a big mask. It looks like⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>His voice rose sharply.</p>
			<p>“It’s Marden! I recognize that waterproof of his; I could swear to it anywhere.”</p>
			<p>“That’s quite correct, Inspector. Now I think we’ll get down from this tree as quick as we can and I’ll blow my whistle. That ought to startle him. And I’ve arranged for that to be the signal for a considerable amount of noise in the house, which ought to give the effect we want.”</p>
			<p>He slipped lightly down the branches, waited for the slower-moving Inspector, and then blew a single shrill blast on his whistle.</p>
			<p>“That’s roused them,” he said, with satisfaction, as some lights flashed up in windows on the front of Ravensthorpe. “I guess that amount of stir about the place will flush our friend without any trouble.”</p>
			<p>He gazed through his glasses at the main door.</p>
			<p>“There he goes, Inspector!”</p>
			<p>A dark figure emerged suddenly on the threshold, hesitated for a moment, and then ran down the steps. Armadale instinctively started forward; but the cool voice of the Chief Constable recalled him.</p>
			<p>“There’s no hurry, Inspector! You’d better hang your glasses on the tree here. They’ll only hamper you in running.”</p>
			<p>Hurriedly the Inspector obeyed; and Sir Clinton leisurely hung up his own pair. Armadale turned again and followed the burglar with his eyes.</p>
			<p>“He’s making for the old quarry, sir.”</p>
			<p>“So I see,” Sir Clinton assured him. “I want the fellow to have a good start, remember. I don’t wish him to be pressed. Now we may as well get the chase organized.”</p>
			<p>Followed by the Inspector, he hurried towards the front of Ravensthorpe.</p>
			<p>“I think that’s a fair start to give him,” he estimated aloud. Then, lifting his whistle, he blew a second blast.</p>
			<p>Almost immediately the figures of Cecil Chacewater and Michael Clifton emerged from the main door, while a few seconds later the police squad rounded the corner of the house.</p>
			<p>“Carry on, Inspector!” Sir Clinton advised. “I leave the rest of the roundup to you. But keep exactly to what I told you.”</p>
			<p>Armadale hurried off, and within a few seconds the chase had been set afoot.</p>
			<p>“We must see if we can wipe your eye this time, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clifton,” the Chief Constable observed. “It’s a run over the old ground, you notice.”</p>
			<p>Michael Clifton nodded in answer.</p>
			<p>“If you’d let me run him down I’d be obliged to you,” he suggested. “You’ve given him a longish start, certainly; but I think I could pull him in.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made a gesture of dissent.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no. We must give him a run for his money. Besides, it wouldn’t suit my book to have him run down too early in the game.”</p>
			<p>The fugitive had reached the edge of the pinewood as they were speaking, and now he disappeared from their sight among the arcades of the trees.</p>
			<p>“The moon will be down in no time,” Cecil pointed out as they ran. “Aren’t you taking the risk of losing him up in the woods there? It’ll be pretty dark under the trees.”</p>
			<p>He quickened his pace slightly in his eagerness; but the Chief Constable restrained him.</p>
			<p>“Leave it to Armadale. It’s his affair. We’re only spectators, really.”</p>
			<p>“I want the beggar caught,” Cecil grumbled, but he obeyed Sir Clinton’s orders and slowed down slightly.</p>
			<p>A few seconds brought them to the fringe of the wood; and far ahead of them they could see the form of the burglar running steadily up the track.</p>
			<p>“Just the same as before?” Sir Clinton demanded from Michael.</p>
			<p>“Just the same.”</p>
			<p>Through the wood they went behind the police squad. At the brow of the hill, where the trees began to thin, Armadale called a halt. They could hear him giving orders for the formation of his cordon. When his men began to move off under his directions the Inspector came over to Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“He’ll not slip through our hands this time, sir. I’ll beat every bit of cover in that spinney. He can’t get away on either side without being spotted. We’ll get our hands on him in a few minutes now. I suppose he’s armed?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I should doubt that.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector failed to conceal his surprise.</p>
			<p>“Not armed? He’s sure to be.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll see in a minute or two,” the Chief Constable answered. “You’d better get your beaters to work, hadn’t you?⁠ ⁠… Ah!”</p>
			<p>In the silence they heard the sound of a faint splash from the direction of the quarry.</p>
			<p>“History’s repeating itself pretty accurately, isn’t it?” said Sir Clinton, turning to Michael. “That’s the kind of thing you heard the other night?”</p>
			<p>“Just the same,” Michael admitted.</p>
			<p>But as the line of constables moved forward he could not help contrasting their methodical work with the rather haphazard doings of the pursuers on the earlier occasion. Armadale had evidently issued stringent orders, for not a tuft of undergrowth was left unexamined as the line slowly closed in upon the hunted man. Every possible piece of cover was scrutinized and beaten before the cordon passed beyond it.</p>
			<p>“Very pretty,” Sir Clinton commented, as they moved up in the rear of the line. “The Inspector must surely have been training these fellows. They really do the business excellently.”</p>
			<p>Michael suddenly left the path they were following and stepped across under the trees.</p>
			<p>“I’m going to have a look at that Fairy House myself,” he declared. “That’s where I found Maurice after the last show. I want to be perfectly certain that it’s empty.”</p>
			<p>He opened the door, leaned inside the building, and then came back to his companions. Something like disappointment was visible in his expression. He was taken aback to see glances of sardonic amusement exchanged between Cecil and the Chief Constable.</p>
			<p>“Drawn blank, have you?” Cecil inquired.</p>
			<p>“There’s no one there at present,” Michael admitted.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think the constables would have missed a plain thing like that,” Sir Clinton remarked mildly, though with a faint undertone of correction in his voice.</p>
			<p>Before Michael had time to reply they heard Armadale’s voice. The cordon had passed completely through the spinney and was now on the edge of the marble terrace.</p>
			<p>“Come along,” Sir Clinton urged. “We mustn’t miss the final scene.”</p>
			<p>They hurriedly joined the line just as Armadale ordered a last advance.</p>
			<p>“He’s somewhere on this terrace,” he told his men. “See that he doesn’t break away from you at the last moment.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton turned to Michael.</p>
			<p>“Just the same as before?”</p>
			<p>Michael made a gesture of assent.</p>
			<p>“I’ll admit that this is more businesslike.”</p>
			<p>The Constabulary line crept forward almost foot by foot, subjecting everyone of the marble seats to the most rigid scrutiny. Inspector Armadale’s anxiety was more and more apparent as the cordon advanced without securing the man for whom they were searching. At last the whole of the possible cover had been beaten, and the constables emerged on the open terrace. The fugitive had vanished, apparently, into thin air.</p>
			<p>Michael Clifton turned to the Chief Constable with an ironical smile.</p>
			<p>“<em>Just</em> the same as last time, it seems. How history repeats itself!”</p>
			<p>The Inspector hurried across the terrace to where they were standing. It was obvious that he was completely staggered by the turn of events.</p>
			<p>“He’s got away, sir,” he reported in a mortified voice. “I can’t think how he’s managed it.”</p>
			<p>“I think we’ll repeat that last stage again, Inspector, if you don’t mind. Withdraw your men till they’re just in front of that last line of seats.”</p>
			<p>While the Inspector was giving his orders Sir Clinton pulled his case from his pocket, opened it, and thoughtfully tapped a cigarette on the lid. Before lighting it he threw a glance up and down the empty spaces of the terrace from which the fugitive had so mysteriously vanished.</p>
			<p>“All plain and above board, isn’t it?” he said, turning to his two companions. “I’ve got nothing in my hands except a cigarette, and you can search my sleeves if you like. It is required, as Euclid would say, to produce a full-sized burglar for the satisfaction of the audience. It’s a stiff job.”</p>
			<p>He glanced again over the wide white pavement of the terrace.</p>
			<p>“A conjurer’s usually allowed a little patter, isn’t he? The quickness of the tongue distracts the eye, and all that. Just a question, then. Do you happen to remember what Medusa was able to do? Turned things into stone when she looked at them, didn’t she? That somehow brings the late Pygmalion to my mind⁠—a kind of association of opposites, in a way, I suppose. But I’ve often wondered what Pygmalion felt like when the statue came to life.”</p>
			<p>He turned sharply on his heel.</p>
			<p>“You can come down off that pedestal, my friend. The game’s up!”</p>
			<p>To the amazement of the group around him, the white marble statue above him started suddenly into life. It leapt down from its base on to the pavement of the terrace, staggered as it alighted, and then, as Cecil and Michael grasped at its smooth sides, it shook itself clear and sprang upon the broad marble balustrade.</p>
			<p>“Come back, you fool!” Sir Clinton snapped, as the figure faced outward to the gulf below.</p>
			<p>But instead of halting, the white form gathered itself together for an instant and then dived headlong into the abyss. There was the sound of a splash; and an appalling cry came up through the night.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton dashed to the rail.</p>
			<p>“Below, there! Get out on that raft at once and pick him up. He’s badly hurt. He’ll drown if you don’t hurry.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector hurried forward.</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t you warn us, sir? We’d have had Marden as easy as anything. If you’d only told us what to expect.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton looked round.</p>
			<p>“Marden? That’s not Marden. I tell you, Inspector, if that jump of his meant anything, it suggests that there’s no Marden at all.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector’s amazement overbore his chagrin.</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand⁠ ⁠…” he began.</p>
			<p>“Never mind. I’ll explain later. Get away down to the waterside at once. See if he’s badly damaged. Quick, now.”</p>
			<p>As the Inspector hurried off, the Chief Constable turned to Michael Clifton.</p>
			<p>“History doesn’t always repeat itself exactly, you see.”</p>
			<p>He pulled out a matchbox and lit his cigarette in a leisurely fashion. Then, throwing away the vesta, he inquired:</p>
			<p>“You see now how he got away from you last time?”</p>
			<p>Michael made no reply. He was examining the pedestal from which the living statue had taken its flight; and he could see the scores and cuts left by the chisel which had smoothed the standing-place of the original marble figure. Quite obviously, on the night of the masked ball, the same trick had been played; and while the pursuers were searching all around, the fugitive had stood rigid above them, unsuspected by anyone.</p>
			<p>Cecil turned to the Chief Constable.</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you going down to see if something can’t be done for the poor devil? He must have come a fearful smash on the rocks.”</p>
			<p>“Poor devil?” Sir Clinton retorted. “That’s not a poor devil. That’s a wild beast, if you’re anxious for information. But if you’re a member of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, I suppose we’d better see that things are done decently and in order. We’ll go down, if you’re perturbed about him.”</p>
			<p>It took them some little time to descend to the level of the lakelet. They could see, as they went down, the process of rescue; and when they reached the waterside, they found two constables stooping over a limp white figure, beside which the Inspector knelt solicitously. As the newcomers approached, Armadale rose and stepped over to them.</p>
			<p>“He’s done for, sir,” he reported in a low voice to Sir Clinton. “His pelvis is smashed and I think his spine must have gone as well. He’s paralysed below the waist. I doubt if he’ll last long. It was a fearful smash.”</p>
			<p>Cecil crossed over and peered down at the face of the dying man. For a moment he failed to recognize him; for the white greasepaint disguised the natural appearance of the features: but a closer scrutiny revealed the identity of the living statue.</p>
			<p>“Why, it’s the chauffeur!”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” was all that Sir Clinton thought it worth while to say.</p>
			<p>Armadale brought something up from the waterside.</p>
			<p>“Here’s the waterproof he was wearing, sir. It’s Marden’s, just as I told you when I saw him in the museum tonight. When he flung it over the edge of the cliff as we were coming up, it landed on a broad bit of rock instead of sinking like the Pierrot costume, the other night.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton was silent for a moment. His glance wandered to the broken, white-clad figure on the ground, but no pity showed on his face. Then he turned back to Armadale.</p>
			<p>“See if you can get a confession out of him, Inspector. He won’t live long at the best; and he might as well tell what he can. We can’t hang him now, unfortunately; and he may as well save us some trouble in piecing things together. For one thing, he’s got a bag or a suitcase lying around somewhere in the neighbourhood with a suit of clothes in it. You’d better find out where that is, and save us the bother of hunting for it. If you manage to get anything out of him, take it down and get it witnessed. Bring it down to Ravensthorpe at once.”</p>
			<p>He paused, then added as if by an afterthought:</p>
			<p>“You’d better search these tights that he’s wearing. There ought to be five of the medallions concealed about him somewhere. Get them for me.”</p>
			<p>He turned to Cecil and Michael.</p>
			<p>“We’ll go back now to Ravensthorpe. Unless I’m far astray in my deductions, there’s been another murder there; and we must keep the girls from hearing about it, if we can.”</p>
			<p>As they walked through the pinewood, Sir Clinton maintained a complete taciturnity, and neither of the others cared to break in on his silence. His last words had shown that ahead of them might lie yet another of the Ravensthorpe tragedies, and the shadow of it lay across their minds. It was not until they were approaching the house that the Chief Constable spoke again.</p>
			<p>“You’ve spun that yarn I gave you to the girls?”</p>
			<p>“They know there was some stunt afoot,” said Cecil, “but they were to keep out of the way, in their rooms, until we were clear of the house.”</p>
			<p>“One had to tell them something,” Sir Clinton answered. “If one hadn’t, they’d have been pretty uncomfortable when all that racket started. You managed to scare him out very neatly with the row you raised when I blew my whistle.”</p>
			<p>“The girls are sitting up, waiting for us,” Cecil explained. “They said they’d have coffee ready when we came back.”</p>
			<p>“The deuce they did!”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton was obviously put out.</p>
			<p>“I’d been counting on their going back to bed again. Then we could have got Marden’s body away quietly⁠—if he’s been murdered, as I think he has. There’s no use upsetting people if you can avoid it. Ravensthorpe’s had its fill of sensations lately and there’s no need to add another tonight.”</p>
			<p>He reflected as he walked on, and at last he seemed to hit on an expedient to suit the circumstances.</p>
			<p>“The bottom’s out of this case now,” he said, at last. “There’ll be no trial; so there’s no need for any more secrecy, so far as I can see. I’ll be giving nothing away that I shouldn’t, at this stage of the game.”</p>
			<p>He threw away the end of his cigarette and looked up at the bulk of Ravensthorpe before them. Here and there on the dark front the yellow oblong of a window shone out in the night.</p>
			<p>“Suppose I spin them a yarn,” Sir Clinton went on. “I can keep them up until dawn with it. After that, they’ll sleep sound enough; and while they’re asleep, we’ll get Marden’s body away in peace and comfort. It’ll spare them the shock of finding another corpse on the premises; and that’s always something gained.”</p>
			<p>When they reached Ravensthorpe, Sir Clinton turned to Cecil.</p>
			<p>“You’d better go and close the safe in the museum. No use leaving things like that open any longer than’s necessary. I must go up to Marden’s room now. I’ll be back again in a minute or two.”</p>
			<p>Ascending the servants’ staircase, Sir Clinton made his way to the valet’s room. The door was locked; but when Sir Clinton tapped gently, a constable opened it and looked out. At the sight of the Chief Constable, he stood aside.</p>
			<p>“He’s been murdered, sir,” the man explained in a whisper.</p>
			<p>“I guessed it might be that,” Sir Clinton returned.</p>
			<p>“Whoever did it must have chloroformed him first,” the constable went on. “There was a pad of cotton-wool over his face; and his throat’s cut.”</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable nodded in comprehension.</p>
			<p>“That would prevent any sounds,” he said. “Brackley was a first-class planner, there’s no doubt.”</p>
			<p>The constable continued his explanation.</p>
			<p>“We came up here as you told us, sir; and when we heard your whistle we slipped into the room, expecting to arrest him according to your orders. But he was dead by that time. It was quite clear that he’d been murdered only a short time before. Your orders didn’t cover the case, so we thought the best thing to do was to lock the door and wait till you came back. You’d said we were to keep him here till your return, anyhow; so that seemed to be the best course.”</p>
			<p>“Quite correct,” Sir Clinton commended them. “You couldn’t have done better. Now you’ll need to wait here till morning. Keep the door locked, and don’t let any word of this affair get abroad. I’ll see about removing the body in due course. Until then, I don’t want any alarm on the subject.”</p>
			<p>He stepped across the room, examined the body on the bed, and then, with a nod to the constables, he went downstairs once more.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
