<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Muramasa Sword</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>As the door closed behind Michael Clifton, the Chief Constable turned to the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“Now we can get to business, Inspector. Let’s have a look round the place at leisure, and perhaps the surgeon will turn up before we reach the body itself.”</p>
			<p>Followed by Armadale, he stepped over to the bay containing the corpse of Foss and began methodically to inspect the surroundings.</p>
			<p>“This must have been the case that Marden slipped against when he cut his hand,” the Inspector pointed out. “There’s a big hole in the glass and some blood on the broken edges of the gap.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, there’s blood enough to suit most people,” Sir Clinton admitted, with a glance towards the shattered case. But he seemed less interested in the glass than in the floor surface; for he moved slowly to and fro, evidently trying to place himself so that the sunlight from the window was reflected up to him from the parquet. After a moment or two, he seemed satisfied.</p>
			<p>“That part of Marden’s story seems true enough. He did slip here. If you come across, you’ll see a line where the polish of the parquet has been taken off by some hard part of his shoe. You won’t be able to spot it unless you make a mirror of the floor.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector in his turn moved over and satisfied himself of the existence of the faint mark.</p>
			<p>“That confirms part of his story,” he admitted, grudgingly. “There’s a lot of blood about, quite apart from the stuff from the body. One might make something out of that.”</p>
			<p>“Suppose we try,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Assume that he cut his hand here on the glass. He’d be all asprawl on the floor; and the first thing he’d do would be to put his hands down to help himself up. That would account for these biggish patches here, under the case. Then a foot or so away you see those round marks of droplets with tiny splashes radiating from them with a fair regularity all round. These must have been made by drops falling from his hand while he stood still⁠—no doubt while he was feeling with the other hand for his handkerchief to stanch the bleeding.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector indicated his agreement.</p>
			<p>“After he’d got it fixed up, one might expect him to go over and look at Foss. He’d gone down on the floor, you remember, while he was hurrying to Foss’s assistance.”</p>
			<p>“There’s no sign of that,” Armadale hastened to point out. “I can’t see any blood-drops round about the body.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t be in too much of a hurry, Inspector. Perhaps they fell in the pool of Foss’s own blood or, more probably, his handkerchief soaked up any blood that flowed just then.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton, still with his eyes on the ground, began to cast about in search of further traces.</p>
			<p>“Ah, here are a couple of drops at the end of the bay. Have a look at them, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Armadale knelt down and examined the clots.</p>
			<p>“Made on his way to the door, probably,” he suggested.</p>
			<p>“They might have been, if he was swinging his arms as one does when one walks freely; but one doesn’t usually swing the arm when there’s a fresh wound in the hand, I think. These aren’t round blobs like the others; they’re elongated, and all the splashing from them is at one end⁠—the end towards the safe. His hand, when they were made, was moving towards the safe’s bay, whatever his body was doing.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made a rough measurement of the distance between the two drops.</p>
			<p>“If they’d been nearer together or further apart, then each of them might have been made while his arm was going backwards in its natural swing while he was walking towards the door. But the distance between them won’t fit that. You’ll see at once if you try walking over the ground yourself, Inspector; for you’re just about Marden’s height and your stride must be nearly the same as his.”</p>
			<p>“He said something about going to the safe and trying the handle,” the Inspector admitted, grudgingly. “So far, his tale’s got some support.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton smiled covertly at Armadale’s obvious desire to pick holes in the valet’s narrative.</p>
			<p>“Well, let’s find out how it happened,” Sir Clinton suggested. “He evidently passed this bay and went on towards the next one, where the safe is. We’ll follow his example.”</p>
			<p>They turned the corner of the showcase and stepped over to the safe door.</p>
			<p>“There’s a trace of blood on the handle, true enough,” the Inspector admitted. “But I’m not sure he told the truth about why he came to the safe.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton inspected the smear of blood on the handle, but he seemed to attach very little importance to it.</p>
			<p>“I suppose one mustn’t jump to conclusions and assume that everything’s all aboveboard,” he conceded. “But even if we keep open minds, wouldn’t it be the most natural thing in the world for Marden to try the safe door? Remember what had happened according to his story. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater was in the room, for Marden saw him with his own eyes. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater turned the corner of a bay⁠—the one next this; and then Marden lost him for good. If you’d been in Marden’s place, wouldn’t you have searched about, and then, finding no trace of the missing man, wouldn’t you have jumped to the conclusion that he might be hidden in the safe? And wouldn’t you have given the handle a pull, just to make sure the safe was really locked and that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater wasn’t hiding inside it?”</p>
			<p>“I suppose so,” conceded the Inspector, evidently dissatisfied.</p>
			<p>“I expect his tale isn’t complete, of course. He could hardly give every detail. It would be a bit suspicious if he had, I think. If his tale had been absolutely complete in every detail, I’d be inclined to suspect a previously prepared recitation rather than an account of the facts. In a case of this sort, one could hardly expect a watertight narrative, could one?”</p>
			<p>He continued his examination of the floor; but there seemed to be no other bloodstains of any importance.</p>
			<p>“Now let’s have a glance at the body,” he suggested. “We needn’t shift it till the surgeon comes; but we can see what’s to be seen without altering its position in the meanwhile.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector was the first to reach the spot, and as he knelt down beside the corpse he gave an exclamation of surprise.</p>
			<p>“Here’s an automatic pistol, sir. It’s lying almost under the body, but I can see the muzzle. It looks like a .38 calibre.”</p>
			<p>“Leave it there. We’ll get at it later.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton examined the body itself. The cause of death seemed obvious enough, for the weapon still remained in the wound. A glance at it set the Chief Constable’s eye ranging over the museum cases. He retreated from the bay and searched for a time until he found what he was looking for: an empty sheath in an unlocked case. Without touching the sheath, he scanned the Japanese inscription on its surface.</p>
			<p>“So that’s the thing?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector had come across to his side and stood looking at the sheath.</p>
			<p>“So the thing’s one of the specimens?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes. Don’t touch it, Inspector. We may as well see whose fingerprints are on it, though it’s quite on the cards that it’s been handled by other people lately as well as the murderer. It’s rather a show specimen, you see⁠—one of Muramasa’s making. This was the sword they were discussing when they were out on the terrace. Muramasa’s weapons have the name of being unlucky; and this one seems to bear out the legend.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector looked at the sheath with apparent care, but his thoughts seemed to be elsewhere.</p>
			<p>“Nobody could have got away from here through the windows,” he observed, rather irrelevantly. “They’re all barred outside, and the catches are fast on the sashes.”</p>
			<p>Evidently Sir Clinton had noticed this in the course of his previous search, for he gave a tacit assent to the Inspector’s statement without even glancing up at the windows.</p>
			<p>“Here are the sheets of rubbing-paper that Foss was using,” the Inspector went on, picking them up as he spoke. “They’ll have his fingerprints on them, so I’ll stow them away. We might need them. One never knows.”</p>
			<p>“We can get actual prints from the body if we need them,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “You don’t suppose it’s a suicide case, do you?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector was too wary to throw himself open to attack. He contented himself with putting the papers away carefully in his pocketbook.</p>
			<p>“Fingerprints will be useful, though,” Sir Clinton went on. “At the earliest possible moment, Inspector, I want you to get prints from the fingers of every one in the house. Start with Miss Chacewater. She’ll agree to let you take hers without any trouble; and after that you can go on to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clifton and so down the scale. We’ve no authority for insisting, of course; but you can make a note if any one objects. I expect you’ll get the lot without difficulty.”</p>
			<p>At this moment Mold opened the door to admit the police surgeon; and Sir Clinton broke off in order to explain the state of affairs to him. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Greenlaw was a businesslike person who wasted no time. While Sir Clinton was speaking, he knelt down beside the corpse and made a cursory examination of it. When he rose to his feet again, he seemed satisfied.</p>
			<p>“That sword appears to have entered the thorax between the fifth and sixth ribs,” he pointed out. “It’s pierced the left lung, evidently; you notice the blood-foam on his lips? And most probably it’s penetrated right into the heart as well. It looks as if it had; but of course I’ll need to carry out a <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr> before I can give you exact details.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose we can take out the sword before we shift the body?” asked the Inspector. “We want to examine it before any one else touches it.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly,” Greenlaw replied. “You can see for yourselves what happened. He was struck from the front by a right-handed man⁠—a fairly heavy blow, I should judge from the depth to which that sword has buried itself. There’s no sign of a twist in the wound, which looks as though he went down under it at once. Quite possibly the base of the skull may have been fractured on the floor by the force of his fall. We’ll see when we come to the <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.M.</abbr> But in any case that wound alone would be quite sufficient to cause almost immediate death. It’s a blade almost as broad as a bayonet, as you can see. I’ll go into the whole thing carefully when I can make a thorough examination. You’ll have him sent down to the mortuary, of course?”</p>
			<p>“As soon as we’ve finished our work here.”</p>
			<p>“Good. I’ll make a note or two now, if you don’t mind. Then I’ll leave you to get on. As things are, there’s nothing there which you couldn’t see for yourselves.”</p>
			<p>He took out a pocketbook and began to jot down his notes.</p>
			<p>“Just a moment, doctor,” Sir Clinton interposed. “I’ve got a patient for you here. I’d like you to have a look at his hand and bandage up some cuts before you go.”</p>
			<p>Greenlaw nodded in agreement and went on with his note-taking.</p>
			<p>“Now, Inspector,” Sir Clinton continued, “we’d better get this sword out. Be sure to take all the care you can not to rub out any fingerprints.”</p>
			<p>Armadale obeyed, and after some cautious manoeuvres he succeeded in withdrawing the weapon, which he laid carefully on the top of the central showcase.</p>
			<p>“Now we can have a look at him,” Sir Clinton said. “You don’t mind our shifting the position of the body, doctor?”</p>
			<p>Greenlaw closed his notebook and prepared to assist them if necessary.</p>
			<p>“Begin with the contents of his pockets, Inspector,” Sir Clinton suggested.</p>
			<p>“The blade’s gone clean through his left breast pocket,” the Inspector pointed out. He felt the outside of the pocket gingerly with his fingers.</p>
			<p>“Nothing there except his handkerchief, so far as I can feel. It’s all soaked with his blood. I’ll leave that to the last. I want to keep my hands clean while I go over the rest.”</p>
			<p>He wiped his fingertips carefully on his own handkerchief and continued his search.</p>
			<p>“Right-hand breast pocket: a notecase.”</p>
			<p>He drew it out and handed it to Sir Clinton, who opened it and counted the contents.</p>
			<p>“Three hundred and fifty-seven pounds in notes,” he announced at length. “That’s a fair sum to be carrying about with one. Ten visiting cards: ‘J. B. Foss,’ with no address.”</p>
			<p>He crossed over to the central case and put down the notecase thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“The left-hand waistcoat pockets are saturated with blood,” Armadale continued. “I’ll leave them over for the present. Top right-hand waistcoat pocket, empty. Lower right-hand waistcoat pocket: a small penknife and a toothpick. Not much blood here; he was lying slightly on his left side and it must have flowed in that direction, I suppose. Right-hand jacket pocket, outside: nothing. I’ll take the trousers now. Right-hand pocket: key-ring and a purse.”</p>
			<p>He handed them to Sir Clinton, who examined them in turn before putting them on the central case.</p>
			<p>“Only keys of suitcases here,” the Chief Constable reported. “We haven’t come across the latchkey of his flat, if you notice.”</p>
			<p>He counted the contents of the purse.</p>
			<p>“Eight and sixpence and one ten-shilling note.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector proceeded with his examination.</p>
			<p>“Here’s something funny! He’s got a smallish pocket over his hip, just below the trouser button. That’s unusual. But it’s empty,” he added, after an eager search.</p>
			<p>“Let me look at that,” Sir Clinton demanded.</p>
			<p>He stooped down and inspected the pocket closely, then stood up and passed his hand across the corresponding spot on his own clothes. As he did so, Armadale noticed a peculiar expression pass across the Chief Constable’s face, as though some new idea had dawned upon him and had cleared up a difficulty. But Sir Clinton divulged nothing of what was passing in his mind.</p>
			<p>“Make quite sure it’s empty,” he said.</p>
			<p>Armadale turned the little pocket inside out.</p>
			<p>“There’s nothing there,” he pointed out. “It wouldn’t hold much⁠—it’s hardly bigger than a ticket pocket.”</p>
			<p>He looked at the pocket again, evidently puzzled by the importance which the Chief Constable attached to it.</p>
			<p>“It’s a silly place to have a pocket,” he said at last. “It’s not like the old-fashioned fob. That was kept tight shut by the pressure of your body. This thing’s mouth is loose and it’s simply a gift to a pickpocket.”</p>
			<p>“I think we’ll probably find another of the same kind on the other side,” Sir Clinton contented himself with saying. “Let’s get on with the rest of them.”</p>
			<p>Armadale turned the body slightly and put his hand into the hip pocket.</p>
			<p>“It’s empty, too,” he announced. “It’s a very loose pocket with no flap on it. I expect he carried his pistol there and he had the pocket built for easy handling of his gun.”</p>
			<p>He looked at the .38 automatic which had been disclosed as he turned the body.</p>
			<p>“That wouldn’t have fitted into the little pocket,” he pointed out. “The pistol’s far too big for the opening.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded his agreement with this view.</p>
			<p>“He didn’t use it for his pistol. Now, the left-hand pockets, please. You can wash your hands as soon as you’ve gone through them.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale stolidly continued his investigation.</p>
			<p>“Left-hand breast pocket in jacket,” he announced. “Nothing but his handkerchief, saturated with blood.”</p>
			<p>He handed it to Sir Clinton, who inspected it carefully before putting it with the rest of the collection.</p>
			<p>“No marks on it, either initials or laundry-mark,” he said. “Evidently been bought and used without marking.”</p>
			<p>“Ticket pocket, empty,” the Inspector went on, withdrawing his fingers from it. “Top left waistcoat pocket: a self-filling Swan pen and a metal holder for same. Lower left waistcoat pocket: an amber cigarette-holder. Not much to go on there.”</p>
			<p>He turned to the trousers.</p>
			<p>“Left-hand trouser pocket: five coppers.”</p>
			<p>Handing them over, he proceeded.</p>
			<p>“Your notion’s quite right, sir. There’s another of these side pockets here. But it’s empty like the other one.”</p>
			<p>Instead of replying, Sir Clinton gingerly picked up the automatic pistol from the floor and placed it along with the other objects on the central case.</p>
			<p>“You’d better examine that for fingerprints, Inspector,” he suggested. “I leave you to make the arrangements about taking the body down to the mortuary. The sooner the better. Now, doctor, we’ll get your patient for you, if the Inspector will be good enough to bring him to the lavatory near by, where you can get his wounds patched up.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale soon produced Marden, who seemed rather surprised at being summoned again.</p>
			<p>“It’s all right, Marden,” Sir Clinton assured him. “It merely struck me that when there was a doctor on the premises you ought to have these cuts of yours properly fixed up.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Greenlaw speedily removed the temporary bandage which the valet had improvised.</p>
			<p>“I’ll need to put some stitches into this,” he said, as the extent of the injury became evident. “Luckily these glass cuts are clean-edged. You’ll hardly see the scar after a time.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton inspected the wounds sympathetically.</p>
			<p>“You’ve made a bit of a mess of your hand, Marden,” he commented. “It’s just as well I thought of getting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Greenlaw to look after you.”</p>
			<p>Marden seemed to have been looking for an opening.</p>
			<p>“I’m glad you called me up again, sir,” he explained. “I’ve just thought of two other points about this affair.”</p>
			<p>“Yes?”</p>
			<p>While the doctor was cleaning and disinfecting the wounds, Marden addressed himself to the Chief Constable.</p>
			<p>“I forgot to say, sir, that when I got back to the house I found <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss’s car waiting for him. I said a word or two to the chauffeur as I passed. It only struck me afterwards that this might be important. I forgot about it at the time.”</p>
			<p>“Quite right to tell us,” Sir Clinton confirmed.</p>
			<p>“The second thing was what the chauffeur told me. He’d been ordered to wait for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss, it seems; and he got the idea that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss was leaving Ravensthorpe this afternoon for good. I was surprised by that; for I’d heard nothing about it from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss.”</p>
			<p>He flinched slightly with the smart of his wounds, as Greenlaw washed them carefully.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be struck by a fresh idea.</p>
			<p>“Before the doctor bandages you up, would you mind if we took your fingerprints, Marden? I’m asking every one to let us take theirs, and this seems to be the best chance we shall have of getting yours, you see? Of course, if you object, I’ve no power to insist on it.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve no objections, sir. Why should I have?”</p>
			<p>“Then you might take impressions of the lot, Inspector,” Sir Clinton suggested. “Don’t spend too much time over it. We must get the bandages on this hand as quick as possible.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale hurried away for his outfit and soon set to work to take the valet’s fingerprints. While he was thus engaged a fresh suggestion seemed to occur to Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“By the way, Marden, you have that parcel which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss sent to the post?”</p>
			<p>“I can give you it in a moment, sir, once the doctor has finished with my hand.”</p>
			<p>“Very good. I’d like to see it.”</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable waited patiently until Marden’s hand was completely bandaged; then he dispatched the valet for the parcel. When it was forthcoming, he dismissed Marden again. The doctor took his leave, and Armadale was left alone with Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“Now let’s see what Foss was sending off, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Cutting the string, Sir Clinton unwrapped the paper and disclosed a small cardboard box. Inside on a layer of cotton-wool, was a wristwatch. Further search failed to bring to light any enclosed note.</p>
			<p>“I suppose he was sending it to be cleaned,” the Inspector hazarded. “Probably he wrote a letter by the same post.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s have a look at it, Inspector. Be careful not to mark it with your fingers.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton took the watch up and examined it closely.</p>
			<p>“It looks fairly new to need repair.”</p>
			<p>He held it to his ear.</p>
			<p>“It’s going. Not much sign of damage there.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps it needed regulating,” Armadale suggested.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps,” Sir Clinton’s tone was noncommittal. “Take a note of the time as compared with your own watch, Inspector; and just check whether it’s going fast or slow in a few hours. Try it for fingerprints along with the rest of the stuff.”</p>
			<p>He replaced it gently in its bed of cotton-wool and closed the box, taking care not to finger the cardboard.</p>
			<p>“Now, if you’ll send for the chauffeur, we may get something from him.”</p>
			<p>But the chauffeur proved a most unsatisfactory witness. He admitted that Foss had ordered him to bring round the car at 3:15 and wait for further orders; but he was unable to give any clear account of the talk he had with his employer when the order was given.</p>
			<p>“I can’t remember what he said exactly; but I got the notion he was leaving here today. I’m dead sure of that; for I packed up my own stuff and had it ready to go off at a moment’s notice. It’s on the grid of the car now. I was so taken aback that I haven’t thought of unpacking it.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton could get nothing further out of the man, and he was eventually dismissed.</p>
			<p>“Now we’ll have a run over the late <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss’s goods,” the Chief Constable proposed, when they had dismissed the chauffeur.</p>
			<p>But the search of Foss’s bedroom yielded at first nothing of much interest.</p>
			<p>“This doesn’t look as if that chauffeur had been telling the truth,” Armadale pointed out, when they found all Foss’s clothes arranged quite normally in wardrobe and drawers. “Foss himself had made no preparations for moving, that’s evident. I’ll see that chauffeur again and go into the matter more carefully.”</p>
			<p>“You might as well,” Sir Clinton concurred. “But I doubt if you’ll get him to shift from his story. He seemed to be very clear about the main point, though he was weak in details.”</p>
			<p>They subjected all Foss’s belongings to a careful scrutiny.</p>
			<p>“No name marked on any of the linen; no tags on any of the suits; no labels inside the jacket pockets,” Inspector Armadale pointed out. “He seems to have been very anxious not to advertise his identity. And no papers of any sort. It looks a bit queer, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>As he spoke, he noticed a small leather case standing in a corner.</p>
			<p>“Hullo, here’s an attaché case. Perhaps his papers are in it.”</p>
			<p>He crossed over and picked up the case, but as he did so an expression of surprise crossed his face.</p>
			<p>“This thing’s as heavy as lead! It must weigh ten or twelve pounds at least!”</p>
			<p>“It’s not an attaché case,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “Look at the ends of it.”</p>
			<p>Armadale turned the case round in his hand. At the upper part of one end the leather had been cut away, disclosing a small ebonite disc rather more than an inch in diameter and pierced with a pattern of tiny holes. At the opposite end of the case there were two small holes side by side and a larger one above; and examination showed brass sockets inside which seemed meant for the reception of plugs.</p>
			<p>“You’d better get his keys, Inspector. Probably the key of this thing will be on the ring.”</p>
			<p>With his curiosity raised to an acute pitch, Armadale went off in search of the key-ring; and was soon back again with it in his hand.</p>
			<p>“Now we’ll see what it is,” he said, as he turned the key in the case’s lock and pressed the opening spring.</p>
			<p>The lifting of the lid disclosed a wooden casing fitted with a couple of hinged doors, an open recess in which were two levers, and a hinged metal plate, on which was an inscription. Armadale read it aloud uncomprehendingly:</p>
			<p>“ ‘Marconi Otophone. Inst. No. S/O 1164.’ What the deuce is this?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton put out his hand and lifted the hinged metal plate, disclosing below two wireless valves in their sockets.</p>
			<p>“Some wireless gadget,” the Inspector ejaculated. “Now what could he possibly have wanted with a thing like that?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton examined the instrument with interest, then he closed the case.</p>
			<p>“We’ll take this along with us, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Then, with a sudden change of mind, he contradicted himself.</p>
			<p>“No, we’ll leave it here for the present. That will be much better.”</p>
			<p>Somewhat mystified by this change of intention, the Inspector agreed. Sir Clinton’s manner did not invite questions.</p>
			<p>“I think we had better see Miss Chacewater again. There are one or two questions I’d like to put to her, Inspector; and you had better be there.”</p>
			<p>In a minute or two, Joan was found, with Michael Clifton in attendance. Sir Clinton did not think it worth while to sit down.</p>
			<p>“Just a couple of points I want to ask about. First of all, is there any record of the combination which opens the lock of the safe in the museum?”</p>
			<p>Joan shook her head.</p>
			<p>“Maurice was the only one of us who knew it. My father did leave a note of it; but I remember that Maurice destroyed that. He specially wished to keep it to himself.”</p>
			<p>“Another point,” Sir Clinton went on. “Did Foss know, on the night of the burglary, which of the rows contained the real medallions and which row the replicas were in?”</p>
			<p>Joan reflected for a moment or two before replying.</p>
			<p>“He must have known. Maurice had shown him the things once at least, if not oftener; and I know there was no secret as to which were the real things and which were the counterfeits.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed satisfied with this information.</p>
			<p>“One last thing,” he continued. “I suppose you could show me where your brother keeps his correspondence. We must get hold of Kessock’s address and notify him about Foss’s death; and there seems no way of doing it as quick as this one. If the papers aren’t locked up, perhaps I could see them now?”</p>
			<p>It appeared that the letters were available and Sir Clinton turned them over rapidly.</p>
			<p>“Fifth Avenue? That’s satisfactory.”</p>
			<p>He put the papers back in their place.</p>
			<p>“There’s just one thing more. I’m going to put a constable on guard at the door of the museum for a while⁠—day and night for a day or two, perhaps. You won’t mind?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly not. Do as you wish.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton acknowledged the permission. Then, as though struck by an afterthought, he inquired:</p>
			<p>“Have you Cecil’s address?”</p>
			<p>Joan shook her head.</p>
			<p>“He said he’d let me know where he was staying, but he hasn’t written. Perhaps he hasn’t settled down yet. He may be staying at an hotel for a day or two.”</p>
			<p>“Please ring me up as soon as he sends word.”</p>
			<p>Joan promised to do this, and Sir Clinton continued:</p>
			<p>“By the way, Inspector Armadale wishes to take the fingerprints of every one in the house. Would you mind setting an example and having yours taken along with the rest? If you do it, then it will be easier for us to get the others. They won’t be suspicious when they hear that it’s a general inquisition.”</p>
			<p>Both Joan and Michael consented without ado.</p>
			<p>“The Inspector will be with you in a moment or two,” Sir Clinton said, as he took his leave. “Just a word with you, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Armadale followed him from the room.</p>
			<p>“Now, Inspector, there’s a lot for you to do yet. First of all, get these fingerprints. Then telephone to London and get Kessock’s business address. As soon as you get it, let me know.”</p>
			<p>“But you got his address from the correspondence, sir, surely. It’s in Fifth Avenue.”</p>
			<p>“I want his other address⁠—his office in New York, you understand?”</p>
			<p>“His office will be shut by now, if you’re going to cable,” the Inspector pointed out, thoughtlessly.</p>
			<p>“No, it won’t. You forget that their time is some hours behind ours. We’ll catch him in office hours if you hurry. Then when you’ve done that, get Foss’s face photographed; and arrange for a constable and reliefs to be posted at the museum door till further orders. The museum door is to be left open and the light is to be left burning at night, so that he can keep his eye on things.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale jotted some notes in his pocketbook. As he closed this, he seemed to think of something.</p>
			<p>“There’s just one thing, sir. You want to get into the safe? Couldn’t we get the number of the lock combination from the makers? They must know it.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Unfortunately the safe has no maker’s nameplate on it, Inspector. I looked at the time we examined it. It’s a fairly old pattern, though, I noticed; and if it hasn’t got a balanced fence arbour, I think I can guarantee to find the combination of it with a little assistance.”</p>
			<p>Armadale looked rather blank.</p>
			<p>“I thought these things were too stiff to tackle,” he said.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton suppressed a smile.</p>
			<p>“You ought to read Edgar Allan Poe, Inspector. ‘Human ingenuity cannot concoct a cipher which human ingenuity cannot resolve,’ was a dictum of his. If I’m not mistaken about that safe, I think I could guarantee to open it in less than ten minutes. The resources of science, and all that, you know. But I think it would be better to wait a while and see if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater turns up to open it for us himself.”</p>
			<p>“But perhaps <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater’s body is inside it now,” the Inspector suggested. “There may have been a double murder, for all we know.”</p>
			<p>“In that case, we shall find him when we open it,” Sir Clinton assured him lightly. “If he’s inside, he’ll hardly be likely to shift his quarters.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
