<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII: What Was in the Lake</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">What Was in the Lake</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>‚ÄúI was afraid of it,‚Äù Sir Clinton observed, as he lifted the dripping pole with which he had been sounding the water of the lakelet. ‚ÄúThe net will be no good, Inspector. With these spikes of rock jutting up from the bottom all over the place, you couldn‚Äôt get a clean sweep; and if there‚Äôs anything here at all, it‚Äôs pretty sure to have lodged in one of the cavities between the spikes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>It was the morning after the masked ball at Ravensthorpe. The Chief Constable had made all his arrangements overnight, so that when he reached the shore of the artificial lake, everything was in readiness. The decrepit raft had been strengthened; a large net had been brought for the purpose of dragging the pool; and several grapnels had been procured, in case the net turned out to be useless. Sir Clinton had gone out on the raft to sound the water and discover whether the net could be utilized; but the results had not been encouraging.</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale listened to the verdict with a rather gloomy face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a pity,‚Äù he commented regretfully. ‚ÄúDragging with the grapnel is a kind of hit-or-miss job, Sir Clinton; and it‚Äôll take far longer than working with the net.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton acquiesced with a gesture.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôd better start close in under the cliff-face,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIf anything came down from the top, it can‚Äôt have gone far before it sank. One of the people last night was watching the pool and he saw nothing on the surface after the splash, so it ought to be somewhere near the cave-mouth. You can pole over to the shore now, Constable; we‚Äôve done with this part of the business.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The constable obeyed the order and soon Sir Clinton rejoined the Inspector on the bank.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs likely to be a troublesome business,‚Äù the Chief Constable admitted as his subordinate came up. ‚ÄúThe bottom‚Äôs very irregular and the chances are that the grapnel will stick, two times out of three. However, the sooner we get to work, the better.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He considered for a moment or two.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTack a light line to the grapnel as well as the rope. Get the raft out past the cave and let a constable pitch the grapnel in there. Then when you‚Äôve dragged, or if the grapnel sticks, he can pull the hook back again with the light line and start afresh alongside the place where he made the last cast. But it‚Äôs likely to be a slow business, as you say.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector agreed and set his constables to work at once. Sir Clinton withdrew to a little distance, sat down on a small hillock from which he could oversee the dragging operations, and patiently awaited the start of the search. His eyes, wandering with apparent incuriosity over the group at the water‚Äôs edge, noted with approval that Armadale was wasting no time.</p>
			<p>Having made his instructions clear, the Inspector came over to where the Chief Constable was posted.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSit down, Inspector,‚Äù Sir Clinton invited. ‚ÄúThis may take all day, you know, and it‚Äôs as cheap sitting as standing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>When the Inspector had seated himself, the Chief Constable turned to him with a question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôve seen to it that no one has gone up on to the terrace?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale nodded affirmatively.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo one‚Äôs been up on top,‚Äù he explained, ‚ÄúI‚Äôd like to go and have a look round myself; but since you were so clear about it, I haven‚Äôt gone.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt go,‚Äù Sir Clinton reiterated his order. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve a sound reason for letting no one up there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He glanced for a moment at the group of constables.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnother thing, Inspector,‚Äù he continued. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no secrecy about that matter. In fact, it might be useful if you‚Äôd let it leak out to the public that no one has been up above there and that no one will be allowed to go until I give the word. Spread it round, you understand?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Slightly mystified, apparently, the Inspector acquiesced.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you see your way through the case, Sir Clinton?‚Äù he demanded. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve given me the facts, but we‚Äôll need a good deal more, it seems to me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton pulled out his cigarette-case and thoughtfully began to smoke before answering the question. When he spoke again, his reply was an indirect one.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs an old jurist‚Äôs saying that I always keep in mind,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt helps to clarify one‚Äôs ideas in a case:</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Quis, quid, ubi, quibus auxiliis, cur, quomodo, quando?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">That puts our whole business into a nutshell.‚Äù He glanced at the Inspector‚Äôs face. ‚ÄúYour Latin‚Äôs as feeble as my own, perhaps? There‚Äôs an English equivalent:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>What was the crime, who did it, when was it done, and where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How done, and with what motive, who in the deed did share?</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">How many of these questions can you answer now, offhand, Inspector? The rest of them will tell you what you‚Äôve still got to ferret out.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale pulled out a notebook and pencil.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWould you mind repeating it, Sir Clinton? I‚Äôd see through it better if I had it down in black and white.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable repeated the doggerel and Armadale jotted it down under his dictation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat seems fairly searching,‚Äù he admitted, rereading it as he spoke.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite enough for present purposes. Now, Inspector, how much do you really know? I mean, how many answers can you give? There are only seven questions in all. Take them one by one and let‚Äôs hear your answers.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a pretty stiff catechism,‚Äù said the Inspector, looking again at his notebook. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll have a try, though, if you give me time to think over it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton smiled at the qualification.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThink it over, then, Inspector,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll just go and set them to work with the dragging. They seem to be ready to make a start.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He rose and walked down to the group at the edge of the pool.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou know what‚Äôs wanted?‚Äù he asked. ‚ÄúWell, suppose we make a start. Get the raft out to about ten yards or so beyond the cave-mouth and begin by flinging the grapnel in as near the cliff-edge as you can. Then work gradually outwards. If it sticks, try again very slightly off the line of the last cast.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He watched one or two attempts which gave no result and then turned back to the hillock again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, Inspector?‚Äù he demanded as he sat down and turned his eyes on the group engaged with the dragging operations. ‚ÄúWhat do you make of it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale looked up from his notebook.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs a sound little rhyme,‚Äù he admitted. ‚ÄúIt lets you see what you don‚Äôt know and what you do know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton suppressed a smile successfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOr what you think you know, perhaps, Inspector?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, if you like to put it that way, sir. But some things I think one can be sure of.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton‚Äôs face showed nothing of his views on this question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLet‚Äôs begin at the beginning,‚Äù he suggested. ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat was the crime?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs clear enough,‚Äù the Inspector affirmed without hesitation. ‚ÄúThese three electrotypes have been stolen. That‚Äôs the crime.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be engrossed in the dragging which was going on methodically below them.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think so?‚Äù he said at length. ‚ÄúH‚Äôm! I‚Äôm not so sure.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale corrected himself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI meant that I‚Äôd charge the man with stealing the replicas. You couldn‚Äôt charge him with anything else, since nothing else is missing. At least, that‚Äôs what you told me. He wanted the real medallions, but he didn‚Äôt pull that off.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton refused to be drawn. He resorted to one of his indirect replies.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat was the crime?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù he repeated. ‚ÄúNow, I‚Äôll put a case to you, Inspector. Suppose that you saw two men in the distance and that you could make out that one of them was struggling and the second man was beating him on the head. What crime would you call that? Assault and battery?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI suppose so,‚Äù Armadale admitted.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut suppose, further, that when you reached them, you found the victim dead of his injuries, what would you call the crime then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMurder, I suppose.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo your view of the crime would depend upon the stage at which you witnessed it, eh? That‚Äôs just my position in this Ravensthorpe affair. You‚Äôve been looking at it from yesterday‚Äôs standpoint, and you call it a theft of three replicas. But I wonder what you‚Äôll call it when we know the whole of the facts.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector declined to follow his chief to this extent.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll the evidence we‚Äôve got, so far, points to theft, sir. I‚Äôve no fresh data that would let me put a new name to it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen you regard it as a completed crime which has partly failed in its object?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector gave his acquiescence with a nod.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think it‚Äôs something else, Sir Clinton?‚Äù he inquired.</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable refused to be explicit.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôve got all the evidence, Inspector. Do you really think a gang would take the trouble to steal replicas when they could just as easily have taken the three originals‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs the point. The replicas have no intrinsic value beyond the gold in them, and that can‚Äôt be worth more than twenty or thirty pounds at the very outside. A mediocre haul for a smart gang, isn‚Äôt it? Hardly Trade Union wages, I should think.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt seems queer at first sight, sir,‚Äù he admitted, ‚Äúbut I think I can account for that all right when you come to the rest of your rhyme.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton showed his interest.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen let‚Äôs go on,‚Äù he suggested. ‚ÄúThe next question is: ‚ÄòWho did it?‚Äô What‚Äôs your answer to that, Inspector?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo my mind, there seems to be only one possible thief.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton pricked up his ears.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou mean it was a single-handed job? Who was the man, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFoxton Polegate,‚Äù asserted the Inspector.</p>
			<p>He watched Sir Clinton‚Äôs face narrowly as he brought out the name, but the Chief Constable might have been wearing a mask for all the change there was in his features as he listened to the Inspector‚Äôs suggestion. As if he felt that he had overstepped the bounds of prudence, Armadale added hastily:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI said ‚Äòpossible thief,‚Äô sir. I don‚Äôt claim to be able to bring it home to him yet.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut you think it might even be ‚Äòprobable‚Äô instead of only ‚Äòpossible,‚Äô Inspector? Let‚Äôs hear the evidence, please.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale turned over the leaves of his notebook until he reached some entries which he had previously made.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFirst of all, sir, Polegate must have known the value of these medallions‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe originals, I mean. Second, he learned that they would be on show last night; and he knew where they‚Äôd be placed in the museum. Third, it was after Polegate came by this knowledge that the practical joke was planned. Fourth, who suggested the sham burglary? Polegate. Then fifth, who gave himself the job of actually taking the medallions? Polegate again. Sixth, where was Polegate immediately after the robbery? We‚Äôve only his own word for it that he was strolling about, having a smoke. He might have been elsewhere, easily enough. Seventh, he was dressed up as a Harlequin when you saw him: but he might quite easily have slipped on a white jacket and a pair of Pierrot‚Äôs trousers over his Harlequin costume. He could disguise himself as a Pierrot in a couple of ticks and come out as a Harlequin again just as quick. So he might quite well have been the man in white that they were all busy chasing last night. Eighth, he knows the ground thoroughly and could give strangers the slip easily enough at the end of the chase. And, ninth, he didn‚Äôt appear when you wanted him last night. He only turned up when he‚Äôd had plenty of time to get home again, even if he‚Äôd been the man in white. That‚Äôs a set of nine points that need looking into. Prima facie, there‚Äôs a case for suspicion, if there‚Äôs no more. And there isn‚Äôt anything like so strong a case against anyone else, Sir Clinton.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, let‚Äôs take the rest of the first line,‚Äù said the Chief Constable, without offering any criticism of the Inspector‚Äôs statement of the case. ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhen was it done, and where?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAt 11:45¬Ý<abbr>p.m.</abbr> and in the museum,‚Äù retorted Armadale. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs beyond dispute. It‚Äôs the clearest thing in the whole evidence.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI should be inclined to put it at 11:44¬Ý<abbr>p.m.</abbr> at the latest, or perhaps 11:43¬Ý<abbr>p.m.</abbr>,‚Äù said Sir Clinton, with an air of fastidiousness.</p>
			<p>The Inspector looked at him suspiciously, evidently feeling that he was being laughed at for his display of accuracy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI go by Miss Rainhill‚Äôs evidence,‚Äù he declared. ‚ÄúShe was the only one who had her eye on her watch, and she said she pulled out the switch at 11:45 precisely.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI go by the evidence of Polegate and young Chacewater,‚Äù said Sir Clinton, with a faint parody of the Inspector‚Äôs manner. ‚ÄúThey were taken by surprise when the light went out, although they expected it to be extinguished at 11:45¬Ý<abbr class="eoc">p.m.</abbr>‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, have it your own way, sir, if you lay any stress on the point,‚Äù conceded the Inspector. ‚ÄúMake it 11:44 or 11:45; it‚Äôs all the same, so far as I‚Äôm concerned.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Armadale seemed slightly ruffled by his chief‚Äôs method of approaching the subject. Sir Clinton turned to another side of the matter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI suppose you say the crime has been committed in the museum?‚Äù he inquired.</p>
			<p>The Inspector looked at him suspiciously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre trying to pull my leg, sir. Of course, it was committed in the museum.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton‚Äôs tone became apologetic.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI keep forgetting that we‚Äôre not talking about the same thing, perhaps. Of course, the theft of the replicas was committed in the museum. We‚Äôre quite in agreement there.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He threw away his cigarette, selected a fresh one, and lighted it before continuing.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd on that basis, I suppose there‚Äôs no mystery about the next query in the rhyme: ‚ÄòHow done?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNone whatever, in my mind,‚Äù the Inspector affirmed. ‚ÄúPolegate could take what he wanted, once the light was out.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton did not dispute this point.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAnd now for the next query: ‚ÄòWith what motive?‚Äô Where do you stand in that matter, Inspector?‚Äù</p>
			<p>But here Armadale evidently felt himself on sure ground.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPolegate‚Äôs a rackety young fool, sir. This is where local knowledge comes in. He‚Äôs got no common sense‚ÅÝ‚Äîalways playing practical jokes. He‚Äôs been steadily muddling away the money his father left him. I shouldn‚Äôt be surprised if he‚Äôs hard up. That‚Äôs the motive.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd you think he‚Äôd steal from his oldest friends?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEvery man has his price,‚Äù retorted the Inspector, bluntly. ‚ÄúPut on the screw hard enough in the way of temptation, and any man‚Äôll fall for it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRather a hard saying that, Inspector; and perhaps a trifle too sweeping.‚Äù Sir Clinton turned on Armadale suddenly. ‚ÄúWhat would be <em>your</em> price, now, if I asked you to hush up this case against young Polegate? Put a figure on it, will you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Armadale flushed angrily at the suggestion; then, seeing that he had been trapped, he laughed awkwardly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNobody knows even their own price till it‚Äôs put on the table, Sir Clinton,‚Äù he countered, with a certain acuteness.</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable turned away from the subject.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre depending on there being a fair chance of Polegate getting away with the medallions without being suspected. But when young Chacewater and Miss Rainhill were in the scheme as well as Polegate, suspicion was sure to light on him when the medallions vanished. The other two were certain to tell what they knew about the business.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale glanced once more at his notebook in order to refresh his memory of the rhyme.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat really comes under the final head: ‚ÄòWho in the deed did share?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù he pointed out.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPass along to the next caravan, then, if you wish,‚Äù Sir Clinton suggested. ‚ÄúWhat animals have you in the final cage?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector seemed to deprecate his flippancy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs been very cleverly done,‚Äù he said, seriously. ‚ÄúYou objected that suspicion was bound to fall on young Polegate; and so it would have done, if he hadn‚Äôt covered his tracks so neatly. He‚Äôs set everyone on the hunt for a gang at work, or at least for an outside criminal. Now I believe it was a one-man show from the start, worked from the inside. Polegate planned the practical joke‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat gave him his chance. Then he forced himself forward as the fellow who was to do the actual stealing‚ÅÝ‚Äîand that let him get his hands on the medallions while young Chacewater held the keeper up for him. Without the holdup of the keeper, the thing was a washout. The joke helped young Polegate to enlist innocent assistance.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut still suspicion would attach to him,‚Äù Sir Clinton objected.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, except for a false trail,‚Äù the Inspector agreed. ‚ÄúBut he laid a false trail. Instead of waiting for the switch to be pulled out, he fired his shot from the bay, extinguished the light and then rushed out of the bay and went for the medallions.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell?‚Äù said Sir Clinton in an encouraging tone.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen he‚Äôd smashed the glass of the case, he took out the whole six medallions, and not merely three of them as he told you he‚Äôd done.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe pocketed the replicas and stuck the real things under the case with plasticine. Then he continued the false trail by bolting out of the house. He was the man in white. When he got clear of the people who were chasing him, he came back to the house again, ready to play his part as an innocent practical joker. And he had his tale ready, of how someone was beside him at the case, wearing a Pierrot costume. That stamped the notion of an outside gang on everybody‚Äôs mind. Both sets of medallions had gone. He‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe innocent practical joker‚ÅÝ‚Äîcould have produced the replicas from his pocket and sworn they were all that the gang had left in the case by the time he got to it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Ää?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd then, a few days later, he‚Äôd have managed to get into the museum on some excuse‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs a friend of the family‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he‚Äôd have had no difficulty in taking the real medallions from under the case where he‚Äôd left them. He‚Äôd have to take the chance that they‚Äôd been overlooked. The false trail would help in that. He‚Äôd hardly expect a close search of the museum after the man in white had got clear away. And by running the business on these lines, he‚Äôd avoid any chance of being caught with the stuff actually in his pocket at any time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut in that case, why did he hand over the real things to me like a lamb as soon as I challenged him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector was ready for this.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause as soon as he came into the museum last night, he found that you apparently knew everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîor a good deal more than he‚Äôd counted on. Anyhow, he didn‚Äôt know how much you knew; and he felt he‚Äôd got into a tight corner. He just let the whole thing slide and made up his mind to get out before things got too hot. So he pretended that so far as he was concerned, the practical joke was the thing; and he gave up the real medallions and kept the replicas in his pocket.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy? He might as well have given up the lot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù the Inspector contradicted. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôd got to keep the false trail going, for otherwise there would have been awkward questions as to why he diverged from the prearranged programme. I mean the shooting out of the light, the lies about the man in white, and so forth. So he stuck to the replicas and made out that there was an outsider mixed up in the affair. But thanks to the practical joke, the outsider had missed the real stuff; and Polegate was really the saviour of the Leonardo set.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be pondering over Armadale‚Äôs version of the affair. At last he gave his own view.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA jury wouldn‚Äôt look at that evidence,‚Äù he pointed out.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt suppose they would,‚Äù Armadale admitted. ‚ÄúBut there may be more to come yet.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI expect so,‚Äù Sir Clinton agreed.</p>
			<p>He rose as he spoke, and, followed by the Inspector, went down to the edge of the lakelet.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo luck yet?‚Äù he inquired.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNone, sir. It‚Äôs a very difficult bottom to work a grapnel over. It sticks three times out of four.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton watched the line of the drag which they were making.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôll take a while to cover the ground at this rate,‚Äù he commented, noting the smallness of the area they had searched up to that moment.</p>
			<p>As he turned away from the waterside, he noticed Cecil Chacewater approaching round the edge of the lakelet, and leaving the Inspector to superintend the dragging, he walked over to meet the newcomer. As he came near, he could see that Cecil‚Äôs face was sullen and downcast.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôMorning, Sir Clinton. I heard you were here, so I came across to say goodbye before I clear out.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton could hardly pretend astonishment in view of what he knew about the state of affairs at Ravensthorpe; but he did not conceal his regret at the news.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere was a row-royal between Maurice and me this morning,‚Äù Cecil explained, gloomily. ‚ÄúOf course this medallion business gave him his chance, and he jumped in with both feet, you know. He abused me like a fishwife and finally gave me permission to do anything except stay at Ravensthorpe after tonight. So I‚Äôm off.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wish you hadn‚Äôt got mixed up with that silly practical joke,‚Äù Sir Clinton said in some concern. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt forgive that young blighter for luring you into it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cecil‚Äôs resentment against his brother was evidently too deep to let him look on the matter from this point of view.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf it hadn‚Äôt been that, it would have been something else. Any excuse would have served his turn, you know. He‚Äôd have flung me out sooner or later‚ÅÝ‚Äîprobably sooner. I‚Äôve felt for long enough that he was itching to clear me off the premises. Foxy‚Äôs little show only precipitated things. The root of the trouble was there long before.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, it‚Äôs a sad business.‚Äù Sir Clinton saw that it was useless to dwell on the subject. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre going up to town? Any address you can give me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll probably put up with a man for a day or two. He‚Äôs been inviting me to his place once or twice lately, but I‚Äôve never been able to fit it in; so I may as well take him at his word now. I‚Äôve got to look round for something to do, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you want someone to speak for you, Cecil, refer them to me when you apply for anything. And, by the way, if you happen to run short, you know my address. A letter will always find me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cecil thanked him rather awkwardly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI hope it won‚Äôt come to that,‚Äù he wound up. ‚ÄúSomething may turn up sooner than one hopes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton thought it well to change the subject again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBy the way, Cecil,‚Äù he asked, ‚Äúdo you know anything about this man Foss? What sort of person is he?‚Äù</p>
			<p>It seemed an unfortunate topic. Cecil‚Äôs manner was anything but gracious as he replied:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFoss? Oh, you know what sort of a fellow he is already. A damned eavesdropper on his hosts and a beggar with a tongue hinged in the middle so that he can talk with both ends at once. I‚Äôd like to wring his neck for him! What do they call the breed that runs off and splits to the police? Copper‚Äôs narks, isn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt wasn‚Äôt exactly that side of him that I wanted to hear about, Cecil. I‚Äôm quite fully acquainted with his informative temperament already. What I want to know is the sort of man he is socially and so forth.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cecil curbed his vexation with an effort.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, he seems to have decent enough manners‚ÅÝ‚Äîa bit Yankee, perhaps, in some things. He must do well enough out of this agent business of his, acting for Kessock and the like, you know. He arrived here with a big car, a chauffeur, and a man. Except for his infernal talebearing, I can‚Äôt say he‚Äôs anything out of the ordinary.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton, apparently feeling that he had struck the wrong vein in the conversational strata, contented himself with a nod of comprehension and let Cecil choose his own subject for the next stage in their talk. He was somewhat surprised when it came.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave you heard the latest from the village?‚Äù Cecil demanded.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve had very little time to collect local gossip this morning, Cecil. I‚Äôve been busy getting things started for this bit of work in the lake, you see.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you‚Äôd been down in Hincheldene village you could hardly have missed it. I went down this morning to get some tobacco and I found the whole place buzzing with it. That was before I‚Äôd seen Maurice, luckily.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuppose you tell me what it is,‚Äù Sir Clinton suggested, drily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you remember my telling you about the family spectre, the White Man?‚Äù Cecil asked. ‚ÄúWell, it seems that the village drunkard, old Groby, was taking a shortcut through our woods last night‚ÅÝ‚Äîor rather this morning, for he‚Äôs a bit of a late going-to-rooster‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he got the shock of his life in one of the glades. He swears he saw the White Man stealing about from tree to tree. By his way of it, he was near enough to see the thing clearly‚ÅÝ‚Äîall white, even the face. What a lark!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou certainly seem to take your family spectre a bit lightly, Cecil. What‚Äôs the cream of the jest?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cecil‚Äôs face took on a vindictive expression.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, it gave me a chance of getting home on Maurice, after he‚Äôd given me the key of the street. I told him all about it and I rubbed in the old story. You know what I mean? The White Man never appears except when the head of the family‚Äôs on his last legs. Maurice didn‚Äôt like it a bit. He looked a bit squeamish over it; and I came away leaving that sticking in his gills.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton hardly concealed his distaste for this kind of thing.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou flatter yourself, I expect. Maurice is hardly likely to waste any thought over superstitions of that sort.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Cecil‚Äôs expression still showed a tinge of malice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôd wonder,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs all very well for you to sneer at these affairs; but it looks a bit different when you yourself happen to be the object of them, I guess. It‚Äôs easy to say ‚ÄòSuperstition‚Äô in a high-minded way; but if there‚Äôs one percent chance that the superstition‚Äôs going to hit you personally, then, you know, it rankles a bit. Anything to give pain is my motto where Maurice is concerned.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Quite oblivious of Sir Clinton‚Äôs rather disgusted expression, he laughed softly to himself for a moment or two.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd the funniest thing in the whole affair,‚Äù he went on, ‚Äúis that I know all about this White Man. Can‚Äôt you guess what it was?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, don‚Äôt you see?‚Äù Cecil demanded, still laughing. ‚ÄúWhat old Groby came across must obviously have been Maurice himself in his white Pierrot dress, coming back from the burglar-hunt! That‚Äôs what makes it so damned funny. Fancy Maurice getting the creeps on account of himself! It‚Äôs as good a joke as I‚Äôve heard for a while.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He laughed harshly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt seem to see it. Well, well. Perhaps you‚Äôre right. And now I must be getting back to the house. I‚Äôve a lot of stuff to collect before I go off.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He shook hands with Sir Clinton and moved off towards Ravensthorpe. The Chief Constable gazed after him for a moment or two.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat young man‚Äôs in a most unpleasant frame of mind,‚Äù he commented to himself. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs obviously quite off his normal balance when he‚Äôd make a point of that kind of thing. I can‚Äôt say I take much stock in brotherly love; but this is really overdoing the business. Both of them seem to have taken leave of ordinary feelings. It‚Äôs just as well they‚Äôre parting, perhaps.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rather moodily he retraced his steps to where the Inspector was directing the operations by the bank of the lakelet; but by the time he reached the group his face had taken on its normal expression.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFishing still poor?‚Äù he demanded, as he came up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing so far, sir,‚Äù the Inspector confessed. ‚ÄúThese rocks are the very deuce to work amongst. I‚Äôve been running the grapnel over the same track two or three times, just in case we miss the thing the first shot. We‚Äôve had no luck at all‚ÅÝ‚Äîunless you count this as a valuable find: a bit of limestone or something like that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He kicked a shapeless mass of white stone as he spoke. Sir Clinton stooped over it: a dripping mass about the size of a man‚Äôs fist. The Inspector watched him as he examined it; but Sir Clinton‚Äôs face suggested neither interest nor satisfaction.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMight be a bit of marble that got swept over the top when they were putting up the balustrade in the old days,‚Äù the Inspector hazarded.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton looked at it again and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI doubt it,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúHowever, since it‚Äôs the only thing you‚Äôve fished up, you‚Äôd better keep it, Inspector. One never knows what may be useful. I might make a paperweight out of it as a souvenir.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector failed to see the point of the joke, but he laughed as politely as he could.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well, Sir Clinton, I‚Äôll see that it‚Äôs put aside.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He glanced over the Chief Constable‚Äôs shoulder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere‚Äôs <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝClifton coming, sir.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton turned round to find that Michael Clifton had approached while he was engaged with the dragging operations. Leaving the group by the bank, he walked slowly to meet the advancing figure.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝClifton. Come up to see how we‚Äôre getting on, I suppose. There‚Äôs nothing to report, I‚Äôm afraid.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDrawn blank?‚Äù Michael inquired, needlessly. ‚ÄúThere ought to be something there, all the same.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt may have been only a stone,‚Äù Sir Clinton pointed out. ‚ÄúYou heard a splash; that‚Äôs all we have to go on. And a stone would make that as well as anything else.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs true,‚Äù Michael admitted. ‚ÄúNone of us saw the thing hit the water, so we‚Äôve no notion what it was like. It might have been a stone for all we can tell. But why should the fellow pitch a brick into the water? That‚Äôs what puzzles me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Before Sir Clinton could reply, a shout came from the bank, and the Inspector waved to them to come down.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôve got something, sir,‚Äù he called, as they drew nearer.</p>
			<p>Followed by Michael, Sir Clinton hurried up to the group at the water‚Äôs edge. The Inspector was kneeling down, carefully disentangling the grapnel from something white. At last he rose and held out his capture. Michael gave an exclamation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA white jacket!‚Äù</p>
			<p>A little further shaking of the material showed that it was a complete white Pierrot costume, except for the cap and shoes. The Inspector spread it out on the grass to dry, after holding the jacket outspread in the air so that they could gauge its size by comparison with his own body.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what I‚Äôve been hoping to get hold of, Inspector,‚Äù Sir Clinton said. ‚ÄúI doubt if you‚Äôll find much more in the pool. But perhaps you‚Äôd better go on dragging for a while yet. Something else might turn up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He examined the costume carefully; but it was quite evident that there were no identifying marks on it. During the inspection, Michael showed signs of impatience; and as soon as he could he unostentatiously drew Sir Clinton away from the group.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome up here, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝClifton,‚Äù the Chief Constable suggested, as he turned towards the hillock he had chosen earlier in the morning. ‚ÄúWe can keep an eye on things from this place.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He sat down and Michael, after a glance to see that they were out of earshot of the dragging party, followed his example.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do you make of that?‚Äù he demanded eagerly.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to have little desire to discuss the matter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLet‚Äôs be quite clear on one point before we begin,‚Äù he reminded Michael. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm a Chief Constable, not a broadcasting station. My business is to collect information, not to throw it abroad before the proper time comes. You understand?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Rather dashed, Michael admitted the justice of this.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm a public servant, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝClifton,‚Äù Sir Clinton pointed out, his manner taking the edge off the directness of his remarks, ‚Äúand I get my information officially. Obviously it wouldn‚Äôt be playing the game if I scattered that information around before the public service has had the use of it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see that well enough,‚Äù Michael protested. ‚ÄúAll I asked was what your own views are.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton smiled and there was a touch of mischief in his eye as he replied.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSeeing that my conclusions are based on the evidence‚ÅÝ‚Äîat least I like to think so, you know‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey‚Äôre obviously part and parcel of my official knowledge. Hence I don‚Äôt divulge them till the right moment comes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He paused to let this sink in, then added lightly:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs a most useful principle, I find. One often makes mistakes, and of course one never divulges them either, until the right time comes. It‚Äôs curious, but I‚Äôve never been able yet to satisfy myself that the right time has come in any case of the sort.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael smiled in his turn; and Sir Clinton went on:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut there‚Äôs no reason why you shouldn‚Äôt draw your own conclusions and give me the benefit of them. I‚Äôm not too proud to be helped, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>For a moment Michael kept silence, as if considering what his next move should be. Sir Clinton had given him what might have looked like a snub; but Michael had acuteness enough to tell him that the matter was one of principle with the Chief Constable and not merely a pretext devised on the spur of the moment to suppress inconvenient curiosity.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt just occurred to me,‚Äù he confessed, ‚Äúthat there‚Äôs a possible explanation of that thing they‚Äôve fished up. Do you remember that I found Maurice in the Fairy House up above there‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe indicated the cliff-top with a gesture‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúand when I left him there he was still wearing a white costume like this one?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo you told us last night,‚Äù Sir Clinton confirmed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow when Maurice turned up in the museum later on,‚Äù Michael continued, ‚Äúhe was wearing ordinary evening clothes. He‚Äôd got rid of the Pierrot dress in the meantime.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs true,‚Äù Sir Clinton agreed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it possible,‚Äù Michael went on, ‚Äúthat after I left him, Maurice got over his troubles, whatever they were, and pitched his disguise over the edge here. This may quite well be it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRather a rum proceeding, surely,‚Äù was Sir Clinton‚Äôs comment. ‚ÄúCan you suggest any earthly reason why he should do a thing like that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt,‚Äù Michael admitted, frankly. ‚ÄúBut the whole affair last night seemed to have neither rhyme nor reason in it; and after swallowing the escape of that beggar we were after, I‚Äôm almost prepared for anything in this neighbourhood. I just put the matter before you. I can‚Äôt fake up any likely explanation to account for it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed to be reflecting before he spoke again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo tell you the truth, I was rather disappointed with the result of that drag. Quite obviously‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis isn‚Äôt official information, for you can see it with your own eyes‚ÅÝ‚Äîquite obviously that Pierrot costume must have been wrapped round some weight or other, or it wouldn‚Äôt have sunk to the bottom. And in the dragging the weight fell out. I could make a guess at what the weight was; but I wish we‚Äôd fished it up. It doesn‚Äôt matter much, really; but one likes to get everything one can.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael, unable to guess what lay behind this, kept silent in the hope that there was more to come; but the Chief Constable swung off to a fresh subject.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you take a careful note of the costumes of the gang who helped you in the attempt to round the beggar up? Could you make a list of them if it became necessary?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael considered for the best part of a minute before answering.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSome of them I could remember easily enough; but not all, I‚Äôm sure. It was a bit confused, you know; and some of the crew turned up pretty late, when all my attention was focused on the final roundup. I really couldn‚Äôt guarantee to give you an accurate list.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton‚Äôs nod indicated approval.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what I like,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôd rather have a definite No than a faked-up list that might mean nothing at all. But there‚Äôs one point that‚Äôs really important. Did you notice, among your assistants, anybody in white like the man you were hunting?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael apparently had no need to pause before replying.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù he said definitely, ‚ÄúI saw nobody of that sort. I suppose you mean Maurice. He certainly wasn‚Äôt in the cordon when it went into the spinney or when it came out on the terrace. I‚Äôm absolutely sure of my ground there. But of course he may have been one of the latecomers. Almost as soon as we got to the terrace we had to sprint off down to the lake side, you see; and he might quite well have been a bit slow in the chase and have reached the top only after we‚Äôd come down here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs all I wanted to know,‚Äù said Sir Clinton, with a finality which prevented any angling for further information.</p>
			<p>Michael evidently had no desire to outstay his welcome, for in a few minutes he rose to his feet.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think I‚Äôll go over to Ravensthorpe now,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI suppose you‚Äôre not going to leave here for a while?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The words recalled to Sir Clinton the fact that he had not yet congratulated Michael on his engagement. He hastened to repair the oversight.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was looking for you at the dance last night,‚Äù he explained, after Michael had thanked him, ‚Äúbut before I got hold of you, this burglary business cropped up, and I‚Äôve had hardly a minute to spare since then. By the way, if you‚Äôre going over to the house, you might tell Joan that I shall probably have to pay them a visit shortly, but I‚Äôll ring up and let them know when I‚Äôm coming.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Michael nodded and turned away, skirting the lakelet on his way to Ravensthorpe. Sir Clinton sauntered over to the waterside and watched the dragging operations which were still going on. When he made his way back to the hillock again, Inspector Armadale followed him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs another point that occurred to me, sir,‚Äù he explained. ‚ÄúI think you told me that Polegate was wearing a Harlequin‚Äôs costume last night?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs correct,‚Äù Sir Clinton confirmed. ‚ÄúAnd what then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne difficulty I‚Äôve had,‚Äù the Inspector went on, ‚Äúwas to explain how the fellow in white got away from them all so neatly. I think I see now how it was done.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made no effort to conceal his interest.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, Inspector?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Armadale obviously took this as complimentary.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis is how I figure it out, sir. Polegate had a white jacket and Pierrot trousers on over his Harlequin costume. At the end of the chase he bolted into the spinney and out on to the terrace above here. That gave him a breathing-space. It took <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝClifton a minute or two to organize his cordon; and during that time the thief was hidden from them by the trees.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs obviously true,‚Äù Sir Clinton admitted. ‚ÄúIf he did change his costume, it must have been at that moment.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI expect he had a weight of some sort ready on the terrace,‚Äù the Inspector continued. ‚ÄúWhen he‚Äôd stripped off his jacket and trousers, he wrapped them round the weight and pitched them over into the pool. That would make the splash they all heard.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd after that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The Inspector was evidently delighted with his idea.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat leaves us with Polegate in Harlequin dress on the terrace, with a minute or two to spare before the cordon was ready to move forward into the spinney.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAdmitted.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you remember the camouflaged ships in the War, Sir Clinton?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI sailed in one, if that‚Äôs what you mean.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you know what they were like: all sorts of cockeyed streaks and colours mixed up in a regular tangle to destroy their real outlines. And what‚Äôs a Harlequin‚Äôs costume? Isn‚Äôt it the very same thing?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton confirmed this with an historical allusion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre quite correct, Inspector. As a matter of fact, the Harlequin‚Äôs dress was originally designed to represent Invisibility. Nobody except Columbine was supposed to be able to see Harlequin, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale hurried to his conclusion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat was to hinder Polegate, during that breathing-space, getting back into the spinney? It was a moonlight night. You know what the spinney would be like under a full moon: it would be all dappled with spots of moonlight coming through the trees. And against a setting of that sort the Harlequin costume would be next door to invisible. He‚Äôd only have to stand still in some chequered spot and no one would detect him. They were all hunting for a man dressed in white. None of them noticed him. None of them saw him, I guess.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Much to the Inspector‚Äôs surprise, Sir Clinton shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôd be prepared to bet pretty heavily that someone saw him,‚Äù he affirmed.</p>
			<p>The Inspector looked at his Chief for a moment, obviously taken aback.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou think someone saw him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Then a flood of light from a fresh angle in his mind seemed to illuminate the question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou mean he had a confederate in the cordon? Someone who let him through and kept it dark? I never thought of that! You had me beaten there, Sir Clinton. And of course, now I see it, that‚Äôs the simplest solution of the whole affair. If we can get a list of the people in the cordon, we‚Äôll be able to pick out the confederate before long.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton damped his enthusiasm slightly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt won‚Äôt be so easy to get that list, Inspector. Remember the confusion of the whole business: the hurry, the effect of moonlight, the masks, the costumes, and all the rest of it. You may be able to put a list together; but you‚Äôll have some difficulty yourself in believing that you‚Äôve tracked down every possible person who was in the line. And if you miss one‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe may be the man, you mean? Well, there‚Äôs no harm in trying. I‚Äôll turn a sergeant on to gather all the news he can get.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôll be a good test of his capacity, then, even if nothing else comes out of it,‚Äù Sir Clinton certified, carelessly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
