<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI: Underground Ravensthorpe</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Underground Ravensthorpe</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>When Inspector Armadale presented himself at the Chief Constable’s office next morning he found Sir Clinton still faithful to his proposed policy of pooling all the facts of the case.</p>
			<p>“I’ve just been in communication with the coroner,” Sir Clinton explained. “I’ve pointed out to him that possibly we may have further evidence for the inquest on Foss; and I suggested that he might confine himself to formalities as far as possible and then adjourn for a day or two. It means keeping Marden and the chauffeur here for a little longer; but they can stay at Ravensthorpe. Miss Chacewater has no objections to that. She agreed at once when I asked her.”</p>
			<p>“The jury will have enough before them to bring in a verdict of murder against someone unknown,” the Inspector pointed out. “Do you want to make it more definite while we’re in the middle of the case?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton made a noncommittal gesture as he replied:</p>
			<p>“Let’s give ourselves the chance, at least, of putting a name on the criminal. If we don’t succeed there’s no harm done. Now here’s another point. I’ve had a telephone message from Scotland Yard. They’ve nothing on record corresponding to the fingerprints of Marden or the chauffeur. Foss was a wrong ’un. They’ve identified his fingerprints; and his photograph seems to have been easily recognizable by some of the Yard people who had dealings with him before. He went by the name of Cocoa Tom among his intimates; but his real name was Thomas Pailton. He’d been convicted a couple of times, though not recently.”</p>
			<p>“What was his line?” the Inspector inquired.</p>
			<p>“Confidence trick in one form or another, they say. Very plausible tongue, apparently.”</p>
			<p>“Did they say anything more about him?” asked the Inspector. “Anything about working with a gang usually, or something like that? If he did, then we might get a clue or two from his associates.”</p>
			<p>“He usually played a lone hand, it seems,” Sir Clinton answered. “Apparently he used to be on the Halls⁠—the cheaper kind. ‘The Wonderful Wizard of Woz’ he called himself then. But somehow they made the business too hot for him and he cleared out into swindling.”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” Armadale evidently saw something which had not occurred to him before. “Those pockets of his⁠—the ones that puzzled me. They might have been useful to a man who could do a bit of sleight-of-hand. I never thought of that at the time.”</p>
			<p>He looked accusingly at Sir Clinton, who laughed at the expression in the Inspector’s eyes.</p>
			<p>“Of course I admit I saw the use of the pockets almost at once,” he said. “But that’s not a breach of our bargain, Inspector. The facts are all that we are pooling, remember; and the fact that Foss had these peculiar pockets was as well known to you as to myself. This notion about sleight-of-hand is an interpretation of the facts, remember; and we weren’t to share our inferences.”</p>
			<p>“I knew pretty well at the time that you’d spotted something,” Armadale contented himself with saying. “But since you put it in that way I’ll admit you were quite justified in keeping it to yourself as special information, sir. I take it that it’s a race between us now; and the one that hits on the solution first is the winner. I don’t mind.”</p>
			<p>“Then there’s one other bit of information needed to bring us level. I’ve just had a message over the phone from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cecil Chacewater. It appears he’s just got home again; came by the first train in the morning from town, apparently. He’s waiting for us now, so we’d better go up to Ravensthorpe. I have an idea that he may be able to throw some light on his brother’s disappearance. At least he may be able to show us how that disappearing trick was done; and that would always be a step forward.”</p>
			<p>When they reached Ravensthorpe Cecil was awaiting them. The inspector noticed that he seemed tired and had a weary look in his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Been out on the spree,” was Armadale’s silent inference; for the Inspector was inclined to take a low view of humanity in general, and he put his own interpretation on Cecil’s looks.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton, in a few rapid sentences, apprised Cecil of the facts of the case.</p>
			<p>“I’d heard some of that before, you know,” Cecil admitted. “Maurice’s disappearance seems to have caused a bit of a stir. I can’t say he’s greatly missed for the sake of his personality; but naturally it’s disturbing to have a brother mislaid about the place.”</p>
			<p>“Very irksome, of course,” agreed Sir Clinton, with a faint parody of Cecil’s detached air.</p>
			<p>Cecil seemed to think that the conversation had come to a deadlock, since the Chief Constable made no effort to continue.</p>
			<p>“Well, what about it?” he demanded. “I haven’t got Maurice concealed anywhere about my person, you know.”</p>
			<p>He elaborately felt in an empty jacket pocket, ending by turning it inside out.</p>
			<p>“No,” he pointed out, “he isn’t there. In fact, I’m almost certain I haven’t got him anywhere in this suit.”</p>
			<p>Cecil’s studied insolence seemed to escape Sir Clinton’s notice.</p>
			<p>“There was a celebrated historical character who said something of the same sort once upon a time. ‘Am I my brother’s keeper?’ you remember that?”</p>
			<p>“Good old Cain? So he did. And his name begins with a <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">C</i>, just like mine, too! Any other points of resemblance you’d like to suggest?”</p>
			<p>“Not just now,” Sir Clinton responded. “Information would be more to the purpose at present. Let’s go along to the museum, please. There are one or two points which need to be cleared up as soon as possible.”</p>
			<p>Cecil made no open demur; but his manner continued to be obviously hostile as they made their way along the passages. At the museum door the constable on guard stood aside in order to let them pass in.</p>
			<p>“Wait a moment,” Sir Clinton ordered, as his companions were about to enter the room. “I want to try an experiment before we go any further.”</p>
			<p>He turned to Cecil.</p>
			<p>“Will you go across and stand in front of the case in which the Muramasa sword used to be kept? You’ll find the sheath still in the case. And you, Inspector, go to the spot where we found Foss’s body.”</p>
			<p>When they had obeyed him he swung the door round on its hinges until it was almost closed, and then looked through the remaining opening.</p>
			<p>“Say a few words in an ordinary tone, Inspector. A string of addresses or something of that sort.”</p>
			<p>“William Jones, Park Place, Amersley Royal,” began the Inspector, obediently; “Henry Blenkinsop, 18 Skeening Road, Hinchley; John Orran Gordon, 88 Bolsover Lane⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“That will be enough, thanks. I can hear you quite well. Now lower your voice a trifle and say ‘Muramasa,’ ‘Japanese,’ and ‘sword,’ please. And mix them into the middle of some more addresses.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector’s tone as he spoke showed plainly that he was a trifle bewildered by his instructions.</p>
			<p>“Fred Hall, Muramasa, Endelmere; Harry Bell, 15 Elm Japanese Avenue, Stonyton; J. Hicky, sword, The Cottage, Apperley⁠ ⁠… Will that do?”</p>
			<p>“Quite well, Inspector. Many thanks. Think I’m mad? All I wanted was to find out how much a man in this position could see and hear. Contributions to the pool. First, I can see the case where the Muramasa sword used to lie. Second, I can hear quite plainly what you’re saying. The slight echo in the room doesn’t hinder that.”</p>
			<p>He swung the door open and came into the museum.</p>
			<p>“Now, Cecil,” he said⁠—and the Inspector noticed that all sign of lightness had gone out of his tone, “you know that Maurice disappeared rather mysteriously from this room? He was in it with Foss; there was a man at the door; Foss was murdered in that bay over there; and Maurice didn’t leave the room by the door. How did he leave?”</p>
			<p>“How should I know?” demanded Cecil, sullenly. “You’d better ask him when he turns up again. I’m not Maurice’s nursemaid.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton’s eyes grew hard.</p>
			<p>“I’ll put it plainer for you. I’ve reason to believe that there’s an entrance to a secret passage somewhere in that bay beyond the safe. It’s the only way in which Maurice could have left this room. You’ll have to show it to us.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed!” Cecil’s voice betrayed nothing but contempt for the suggestion.</p>
			<p>“It’s for your own benefit that I make the proposal,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “Refuse if you like. But if you do I’ve a search-warrant in my pocket and I mean to find that entrance even if I have to root out most of the panelling and gut the room. You won’t avert the discovery by this attitude of yours. You’ll merely make the whole business public. It would be far more sensible to recognize the inevitable and show us the place yourself. I don’t want to damage things any more than is necessary. But if I’m put to it I’ll be thorough, I warn you.”</p>
			<p>Cecil favoured the Chief Constable with an angry look; but the expression on Sir Clinton’s face convinced him that it was useless to offer any further opposition.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” he snarled. “I’ll open the thing, since I must.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton took no notice of his anger.</p>
			<p>“So long as you open it the rest doesn’t matter. I’ve no desire to pry into things that don’t concern me. I don’t wish to know how the panel opens. Inspector, I think we’ll turn our backs while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater works the mechanism.”</p>
			<p>They faced about. Cecil took a few steps into the bay. There was a sharp snap; and when they turned round again a door gaped in the panelling at the end of the room.</p>
			<p>“Quite so,” said Sir Clinton. “Most ingenious.”</p>
			<p>His voice had regained its normal easy tone; and now he seemed anxious to smooth over the ill-feeling which had come to so acute a pitch in the last few minutes.</p>
			<p>“Will you go first, Cecil, and show us the way? I expect it’s difficult for a stranger. I’ve brought an electric torch. Here, you’d better take it.”</p>
			<p>Now that he had failed in his attempt, Cecil seemed to recover his temper again. He took the torch from the Chief Constable and, pressing the spring to light it, stepped through the open panel.</p>
			<p>“I think we’ll lock the museum door before we go down,” Sir Clinton suggested. “There’s no need to expose this entrance to anyone who happens to come in.”</p>
			<p>He walked across the museum, turned the key in the lock, and then rejoined his companions.</p>
			<p>“Now, Cecil, if you please.”</p>
			<p>Cecil Chacewater led the way; Sir Clinton motioned to the Inspector to follow him, and brought up the rear himself.</p>
			<p>“Look out, here,” Cecil warned them. “There’s a flight of steps almost at once.”</p>
			<p>They made their way down a spiral staircase which seemed to lead deep into the foundations of Ravensthorpe. At last it came to an end, and a narrow tunnel gaped before them.</p>
			<p>“Nothing here, you see,” Cecil pointed out, flashing the torch in various directions. “This passage is the only outlet.”</p>
			<p>He led the way into the tunnel, followed by the Inspector. Sir Clinton lagged behind them for a moment or two, and then showed no signs of haste, so that they had to pause in order to let him catch up.</p>
			<p>The tunnel led them in a straight line for a time, then bent in a fresh direction.</p>
			<p>“It’s getting narrower,” the Inspector pointed out.</p>
			<p>“It gets narrower still before you’re done with it,” Cecil vouchsafed in reply.</p>
			<p>As the passage turned again Sir Clinton halted.</p>
			<p>“I’d like to have a look at these walls,” he said.</p>
			<p>Cecil turned back and threw the light of the torch over the sides and roof of the tunnel.</p>
			<p>“It’s very old masonry,” he pointed out.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>
			<p>“This is a bit of old Ravensthorpe, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“It’s older than the modern parts of the building,” Cecil agreed. He seemed to have overcome his ill-humour and to be making the best of things.</p>
			<p>“Let’s push on, then,” Sir Clinton suggested. “I’ve seen all I wanted to see, thanks.”</p>
			<p>As they proceeded, the tunnel walls drew nearer together and the roof grew lower. Before long the passage was barely large enough to let them walk along it without brushing the stones on either side.</p>
			<p>“Wait a moment,” Sir Clinton suggested, as they reached a fresh turning. “Inspector, would you mind making a rough measurement of the dimensions here?”</p>
			<p>Somewhat mystified, Inspector Armadale did as he was bidden, entering the figures up in his notebook while Cecil stood back, evidently equally puzzled by these manoeuvres.</p>
			<p>“Thanks, that will do nicely,” Sir Clinton assured him when the task had been completed. “Suppose we continue?”</p>
			<p>Cecil advanced a few steps. Then a thought seemed to strike him.</p>
			<p>“It gets narrower farther on. We’ll have to go on hands and knees, and there won’t be room to pass one another. Perhaps one of you should go first with the torch. There’s nothing in the road.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton agreed to this.</p>
			<p>“I’ll go first, then. You can follow on, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale looked suspicious at this suggestion.</p>
			<p>“He might get away back and shut us in,” he murmured in Sir Clinton’s ear.</p>
			<p>The Chief Constable took the simplest way of reassuring the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“That’s an ingenious bit of mechanism in the panel, up above,” he said to Cecil. “I had a glance at it as I passed, since it’s all in plain sight. From this side, you’ve only to lift a bar to open it, haven’t you?”</p>
			<p>“That’s so,” Cecil confirmed.</p>
			<p>Armadale was evidently satisfied by the information which Sir Clinton had thus conveyed to him indirectly. He squeezed himself against the wall and allowed the Chief Constable to come up to the head of the party. Sir Clinton threw his light down the passage in front of them.</p>
			<p>“It looks like all-fours, now,” he commented, as the lamp revealed a steadily diminishing tunnel. “We may as well begin now and save ourselves the chance of knocking our heads against the roof.”</p>
			<p>Suiting the action to the word, he got down on hands and knees and began to creep along the passage.</p>
			<p>“At least we may be thankful it’s dry,” he pointed out.</p>
			<p>The tunnel grew still smaller until they found more than a little difficulty in making their way along it.</p>
			<p>“Have we much farther to go?” asked the Inspector, who seemed to have little liking for the business.</p>
			<p>“The end’s round the next corner,” Cecil explained.</p>
			<p>They soon reached the last bend in the passage, and as he turned it Sir Clinton found himself at the entrance to a tiny space. The roof was even lower than that of the tunnel, and the floor area was hardly more than a dozen square feet. A stone slab, raised a few inches from the ground, seemed like a bed fitted into a niche.</p>
			<p>“A bit wet in this part,” Sir Clinton remarked. “If I’d known that we were in for this sort of thing I think I’d have put on an old suit this morning. Mind your knees on the floor, Inspector. It’s fairly moist.”</p>
			<p>He climbed into the niche, which was no bigger than the bunk of a steamer, and began to examine his surroundings with his torch. Inspector Armadale, taking advantage of the space thus made clear, crept into the tiny chamber.</p>
			<p>“This place looks as if it had been washed out, lately,” he said, examining the smooth flagstones which formed the floor. He turned his attention to the roof, evidently in search of dripping water; but he could find none, though the walls were moist.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Sir Clinton bent forward and brought his lamp near something on the side of the niche.</p>
			<p>The Inspector, seeing something in the patch of light, craned forward to look also, and as he did so he seemed to recognize what he saw.</p>
			<p>“Why, that’s⁠ ⁠…” he ejaculated.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton’s lamp went out abruptly, and Inspector Armadale felt his arm gripped warningly in the darkness.</p>
			<p>“Sorry,” the Chief Constable apologized. “My finger must have shifted the switch on the torch. Out of the way, Inspector, please. There’s nothing more to be seen here.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale wriggled back into the passage again as Sir Clinton made a movement as though to come out of his perch in the recess.</p>
			<p>“So this is where Maurice got to when he left the museum?” the Chief Constable said, reflectively. “Well, he isn’t here now, that’s plain. We’ll need to look elsewhere, Inspector, according to your scheme. If he wasn’t elsewhere he was to be here. But as he isn’t here he’s obviously elsewhere. And now I think we’ll make our way up to the museum again. Wait a moment! We’ve got to get back into that passage with our heads in the right direction. Once we’re into the tunnel there won’t be room to turn round.”</p>
			<p>It took some manoeuvring to arrange this, for the tiny chamber was a tight fit for even three men; but at last they succeeded in getting back into the tunnel in a position which permitted them to creep forwards instead of backwards. They finally accomplished the long journey without incident, and emerged through the gaping panel into the museum once more.</p>
			<p>“Now we’ll turn our backs again, Inspector, and let <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater close the panel.”</p>
			<p>Again the sharp click notified them that they could turn round. The panelling seemed completely solid.</p>
			<p>“There are just a couple of points I’d like to know about,” Sir Clinton said, turning to Cecil. “You don’t know the combination that opens the safe over there, I believe?”</p>
			<p>Cecil Chacewater seemed both surprised and relieved to hear this question.</p>
			<p>“No,” he said. “Maurice kept the combination to himself.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded as though he had expected this answer.</p>
			<p>“Just another point,” he continued. “You may not be able to remember this. At any time after you and Foxton Polegate had planned that practical joke of yours, did Foss ask you the time?”</p>
			<p>Cecil was obviously completely taken aback by this query.</p>
			<p>“Did he ask me the time? Not that I know of. I can’t remember his ever doing that. Wait a bit, though. No, he didn’t.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed disappointed for a moment. Then, evidently, a fresh idea occurred to him.</p>
			<p>“On the night of the masked ball, did anyone ask you the time?”</p>
			<p>Cecil considered for a moment or two.</p>
			<p>“Now I come to think of it, a fellow dressed as a cowboy came up and said his watch had stopped.”</p>
			<p>“Ah! I thought so,” was all Sir Clinton replied, much to the vexation of Inspector Armadale.</p>
			<p>“By the way,” the Chief Constable went on, “I’d rather like to get to the top of one of those turrets up above.” He made a gesture indicating the roof. “There’s a stair, isn’t there?”</p>
			<p>Armadale had difficulty in concealing his surprise at this unexpected demand. Cecil Chacewater made no difficulties, but led them upstairs and opened the door of the entrance to a turret. When they reached an open space at the summit, Sir Clinton leaned on the parapet and gazed over the surrounding country with interest. As the space was restricted, Cecil remained within the turret, at the top of the stair; but the Inspector joined his Chief on the platform.</p>
			<p>“Splendid view, isn’t it, Inspector?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Very fine.”</p>
			<p>Armadale was evidently puzzled by this turn of affairs. He could not see why Sir Clinton should have come up to admire the view instead of getting on with the investigation. The Chief Constable did not seem to notice his subordinate’s perplexity.</p>
			<p>“There’s Hincheldene,” Sir Clinton pointed out. “With a decent pair of glasses one could read the time on the clock-tower on a clear day. These woods round about give a restful look to things. Soothing, that greenery. Ah! Just follow my finger, Inspector. See that white thing over yonder? That’s one of these Fairy Houses.”</p>
			<p>He searched here and there in the landscape for a moment.</p>
			<p>“There’s another of them, just where you see that stream running across the opening between the two spinneys⁠—yonder. And there’s a third one, not far off that ruined tower. See it? I wonder if we could pick up any more. They seem to be thick enough on the ground. Yes, see that one in the glade over there? Not see it? Look at that grey cottage with the creeper on it; two o’clock; three fingers. See it now?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t quite make it out, sir,” the Inspector confessed.</p>
			<p>He seemed bored by Sir Clinton’s insistence on the matter; but he held up his hand and tried to discover the object. After a moment or two he gave up the attempt and, turning round, he noticed his Chief slipping a small compass into his pocket.</p>
			<p>“Quite worth seeing, that view,” Sir Clinton remarked, imperturbably, as he made his way towards the turret stair. “Thanks very much, Cecil. I don’t think we need trouble you any more for the present; but I’d like to see your sister, if she’s available. I want to ask her a question.”</p>
			<p>Cecil Chacewater went in search of Joan, and after a few minutes she met them at the foot of the stair.</p>
			<p>“There’s just one point that occurred to me since you told us about that interview you and Maurice had with Foss before you went to the museum. You were sitting on the terrace, weren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” Joan confirmed.</p>
			<p>“Then you must have seen Foss’s car drive up when it came to wait at the front door for him?”</p>
			<p>“I remember seeing it come up just before we went to the museum. I didn’t say anything about it before. It didn’t seem to matter much.”</p>
			<p>“That was quite natural,” Sir Clinton reassured her. “In fact, I’m not sure that it matters much even yet. I’m just trying for any evidence I can get. Tell me anything whatever that you noticed, no matter whether it seems important or not.”</p>
			<p>Joan thought for almost a minute before replying.</p>
			<p>“I did notice the chauffeur putting the hood up, and I wondered what on earth he was doing that for on a blazing day.”</p>
			<p>“Anything else?”</p>
			<p>“He had his tool-kit out and seemed to be going to do some repair or other.”</p>
			<p>“At the moment when he’d brought the car round for Foss?” demanded the Inspector, rather incredulously. “Surely he’d have everything spick and span before he left the garage?”</p>
			<p>“You’d better ask him about it, himself, Inspector,” said Joan, tartly. “I’m merely telling what I saw; and I saw that plain enough. Besides, he may have known he’d plenty of time. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foss was going away with us and obviously he wasn’t in a hurry to use the car.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton ignored the Inspector’s interruption.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got my own car at the door,” he observed. “Perhaps you could go out on to the terrace and direct me while I bring it into the same position as you saw Foss’s car that afternoon.”</p>
			<p>Joan agreed; and they went down together.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said Sir Clinton as he started the engine, “would you mind directing me?”</p>
			<p>Joan, from the terrace, indicated how he was to manoeuvre until he had brought his own car into a position as near as possible to that occupied by Foss’s car on the afternoon of the murder.</p>
			<p>“That’s as near as I can get it,” she said at last.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton turned in his seat and scanned the front of Ravensthorpe.</p>
			<p>“What window is this that I’m opposite?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“That’s the window of the museum,” Joan explained. “But you can’t see into the room, can you? You’re too low down there.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing more than the tops of the cases,” Sir Clinton said. “You’d better get aboard, Inspector. There’s nothing more to do here.”</p>
			<p>He waved goodbye to Joan as Armadale stepped into the car, and then drove down the avenue. The Inspector said nothing until they had passed out of the Ravensthorpe grounds and were on the high road again. Then he turned eagerly to the Chief Constable.</p>
			<p>“That was a splash of blood you found on the wall of the underground room, wasn’t it? I recognized it at once.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t get excited about it, Inspector,” said Sir Clinton soothingly. “Of course it was blood; but we needn’t shout about it from the housetops, need we?”</p>
			<p>Armadale thought he detected a tacit reproof for his exclamation at the time the discovery was made.</p>
			<p>“You covered up that word or two of mine very neatly, sir,” he admitted frankly. “I was startled when I saw that spot of blood on the wall, and I nearly blurted it out. Silly of me to do it, I suppose. But you managed to smother it up with that bungling with your lamp before I’d given anything away. I’d no notion you wanted to keep the thing quiet.”</p>
			<p>“No harm done,” Sir Clinton reassured him. “But be careful another time. One needn’t show all one’s cards.”</p>
			<p>“You certainly don’t,” Armadale retorted.</p>
			<p>“Well, you have all the facts, Inspector. What more do you expect?”</p>
			<p>Armadale thought it best to change the subject.</p>
			<p>“That water that we saw down there,” he went on. “That never leaked in through the roof. The masonry overhead was as tight as a drum and there wasn’t a sign of drip-marks anywhere. That water came from somewhere else. Someone had been washing up in that cellar. There had been more blood there⁠—lots of it; and they’d washed it away. That tiny patch was a bit they’d overlooked. Isn’t that so, sir?”</p>
			<p>“That’s an inference and not a fact, Inspector,” Sir Clinton pointed out, with an expression approaching to a grin on his face. “I don’t say you’re wrong. In fact, I’m sure you’re right. But only facts are supposed to go into the common stock, remember.”</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>
			<p>But the Inspector had something in reserve.</p>
			<p>“I’ll give you a fact now,” he said with ill-suppressed triumph. “As you came away, you happened to ask <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chacewater if he’d come by the first train this morning.”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“And he said he did?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Armadale, with a tinge of derision in his voice, “he took you in, there; but he didn’t come over me with that tale. He didn’t come by the first train; he wasn’t in it! And what’s more, he didn’t come by train to our station at all, for I happened to make inquiries. I knew you were anxious for him to come back, and I thought I’d ask whether he’d come.”</p>
			<p>“That’s very interesting,” said Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>He made no further remark until they reached the police station. Then, as they got out of the car, he turned to the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“Care to see me do a little map-drawing, Inspector? It might amuse you.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
